VOA LEARNING ENGLISH
A dictionary of the most
useful words for
learning American English

VOA LEARNING ENGLISH
WORD BOOK
A dictionary of the most
useful words for
learning American English
learningenglish.voanews.com

Contents
4

Foreword.................................................................... 4
Letters.of.the.English.Alphabet....................................... 6
Parts.of.Speech............................................................ 8
Word.List.&.Definitions................................................10
Special.Words.&.Information........................................88
Common.Prefixes....................................................89
Common.Expressions...............................................89
Numbers,.Days,.Months...........................................90
Chemical.Elements..................................................91
Organs.of.the.Body..................................................91
Computer.Terms......................................................92
Business.Terms.......................................................93
United.States.Branches.of.Government......................94
Map.of.the.United.States..........................................96
Map.of.the.World....................................................98
Presidents.of.the.United.States................................100
learningenglish.voanews.com 5

Welcome to VOA’s Learning English
6

Voice.of.America’s.Learning.English.is.a.go-to.resource.to.
learn.English.for.millions.of.people.worldwide..Our.lessons,.
videos.and.other.resources.are.written.for.English.learners.
at.the.intermediate.and.upper-beginner.level..Our.programs.
are.read.one-third.slower.than.normal.English.speed..We.
also.use.news.and.current.affairs.as.learning.tools..Online.
texts,.MP3s.and.podcasts.let.people.read,.listen.to.and.learn.
American.English.and.much.more.
Learning.English.began.as.Special.English,.which.Voice..
of.America.launched.in.1959..Special.English.lessons.and.
programs.were.a.fixture.of.VOA’s.international.shortwave.
broadcasts.for.more.than.half.a.century..In.2014,.VOA.
launched.Learning.English.to.provide.more.English.teaching.
materials,.such.as.the.popular.Let’s Learn English.videos.and.
Everyday Grammar.teaching.series.
This.book.explains.the.meaning.of.the.words.used.in.our..
lessons.and.offerings..The.first.edition.was.published.in.
1962..The.list.of.words.has.changed.since.then,.as.the..
language.itself.has.changed..We.thank.all.those.people.at.
VOA.who.started.the.process.and.who.helped.make.this.
edition.possible.
Learning.English.articles,.MP3s.and.videos.are.in.the.public.
domain..They.can.be.reprinted.for.educational.purposes.so.
long.as.you.give.credit.to.learningenglish.voanews.com.
Learning.English.programs.are.also.broadcast.on.radio..
and.satellite.TV,.and.are.available.on.YouTube,.Facebook,..
and.Twitter.
VOA Learning English
Washington, DC, 2018
learningenglish.voanews.com 7

Letters of the English Alphabet
8

Aa Bb Cc Dd Ee
Ff Gg Hh Ii Jj Kk
Ll Mm Nn Oo Pp
Qq Rr Ss Tt Uu
Vv Ww Xx Yy Zz
learningenglish.voanews.com 9

Parts of Speech
10

noun.(n.).–.a.name.word preposition.(prep.).–.a.word.used..
to.show.a.relation
out
book
in
verb.(v.).—.an.action.word pronoun.(pro.).–.a.word.used.in..
place.of.a.noun
it
speak
adjective/adverb.(ad.).–.. conjunction.(conj.).–.a.joining.word
a.describing.word
happy and
learningenglish.voanews.com 11

A
a (an) –.ad. one;.any;.each guilt.or.responsibility.(“He admitted
that what he did was wrong.”)
able. –. v.. having. the. power. to. do.
something adult.–.n..a.grown.person
about.–.adj..almost.(“about half”);. advertise.–.v..to.show.or.present.the.
of.or.having.a.relation.to.(“We talk qualities. of. a. product. to. increase.
about the weather.”) sales
above.–.ad..at.a.higher.place advise. –. v.. to. help. with. informa-
tion,.knowledge.or.ideas.in.making.a..
abuse.–.n..bad.treatment.causing.
decision
harm.or.injury
affect.–.v..to.produce.an.effect.on;.
accept.–.v..to.agree.to.receive
to.influence.(“A lack of sleep affected
accident. –. n.. something. that.. the singer’s performance.”)
happens.by.chance.or.mistake;.an.
afraid.–.ad..feeling.fear
unplanned.event
after.–.ad..later;.behind
accuse.–.v..to.say.a.person.is.respon-
sible.for.an.act.or.crime;.to.make.a. again.–.ad..another.time;.as.before
statement.against.someone
against.–.ad..opposed.to;.not.agree-
across.–.ad..from.side.to.side;.to.the. ing.with.something
other.side
age.–.n..how.old.a.person.or.thing.is
act.–.v..to.do.something
agency.–.n..an.organization.that.is.
activist.–.n..one.who.seeks.change. part.of.a.larger.group.(“an agency of
through.action the United Nations”)
actor.–.n..someone.acting.in.a.play.. aggression.–.n..an.attack.against.a.
or.show person.or.country;.the.violation.of.a.
country’s.borders
add. –. v.. to. put. (something). with..
another.to.make.it.larger;.to.say.more ago.–.ad..of.time.past;.before.now
administration.–.n..the.executive.part.. agree.–.v..to.have.the.same.belief..
of.a.government,.usually.headed.by.a. as. someone;. to. be. willing. to. do.
president.or.prime.minister something
admit.–.v..to.accept.(“admitted to the agriculture.–.n..farming
United Nations”);. to. express. one’s.
12

a (an) • animal
aid.–.v..to.help;.to.support;.n..help,. almost. –. ad.. a. little. less. than..
| assistance |     |     | completely |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- |
aim.–.v..to.point.a.gun.at;.n..a.goal.. alone.–.ad..separated.from.others
or.purpose
along.–.ad..near.or.on.(“along the
| air.–.n..the.mixture.of.gases.around. |                   |       | road”) |     |     |
| ------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ----- | ------ | --- | --- |
| the. earth,.                          | mostly. nitrogen. | and.. |        |     |     |
already.–.ad..before.now;.even.now
oxygen,.that.we.breathe
also.–.ad..added.to;.too
air force.–.n..a.military.organization.
| using.airplanes |     |     | although.–.conj..even.if.it.is.true.that |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
airplane.–.n..a.vehicle.with.wings. always.–.ad..at.all.times;.every.time
that.flies
ambassador.–.n..a.nation’s.highest.
diplomatic.representative.(to.anoth-
er.government)
amend.–.v..to.add.to.or.to.change..
(a.proposal.or.law)
ammunition.–.n..the.bullets.or.shells.
fired.from.guns
airplane
among.–.ad..in.or.part.of.(a.group)
airport.–.n..a.place.where.airplanes. amount. –. n.. the. number,. size. or.
| take.off.and.land |     |     | weight.of.anything |     |     |
| ----------------- | --- | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- |
album.–.n..a.collection.of.recorded. anarchy.–.n..a.lack.of.order;.lawlessness
music
ancestor.–.n..a.family.member.from.
| alcohol.–.n..a.strong,.colorless.liquid,.. |               |           | the.past |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------- | --------- | -------- | --- | --- |
| usually. made.                             | from. grain,. | used. in. |          |     |     |
ancient.–.ad..very.old;.long.ago
drinks.or.in.industrial.products
and.–.conj..also;.in.addition.to;.with
alive.–.ad..having.life;.not.dead
anger.–.n..a.strong.emotion.against.
all.–.ad..everything;.everyone;.the.
someone.or.something
complete.amount
|     |     |     | animal. –. | n.. a. living. creature. | that. |
| --- | --- | --- | ---------- | ------------------------ | ----- |
ally.–.n..a.nation.or.person.joined.
moves,.such.as.a.dog.or.cat
with.another.for.a.special.purpose
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 13  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

anniversary.–.n..a.yearly.celebration.. argue. –. v.. to. offer. reasons. for. or.
or. observance. of. an. event. that.. against. something;. to. dispute;. to.
happened.in.the.past disagree
announce. –. v.. to. make. known.. arms.–.n..military.equipment;.weapons
publicly;.to.declare.officially
army.–.n..military.ground.forces
another.–.ad..one.more;.a.different.
around.–.ad..on.every.side.(of)
one
arrest.–.v..to.seize.a.person.for.legal.
answer.–.n..a.statement.produced.by.
action;.to.take.as.a.prisoner
a.question;.v..to.make.a.statement.
after.being.asked.a.question arrive. –. v.. to. come. to. a. place,..
especially.at.the.end.of.a.trip
antibodies. –. n.. special. proteins..
produced. in. the. blood. that. kill.. art.–.n..expressions.or.creations.by.
harmful.bacteria humans,. such. as. paintings,. music,.
writing.or.statues
any.–.ad..one.or.more.of.no.special.
kind
apologize.–.v..to.express.regret.for.
a.mistake.or.accident.for.which.one..
accepts.responsibility
appeal.–.v..to.take.to.a.higher.court,.
person.or.group.for.a.decision;.to.call.
on.somebody.for.help
appear.–.v..to.show.oneself;.to.come.
into.sight;.to.seem
art
appoint. –. v.. to. name;. to. choose..
(“appoint a judge”) artillery.–.n..big.guns
approve.–.v..to.agree.with;.to.agree. as.–.conj..equally.(“as fast as”);.when;.
to.support while
archeology.–.n..the.scientific.study.of. ash.–.n..the.part.left.after.something.
past.human.life.and.activities burns
area.–.n..any.place.or.part.of.it
14

anniversary • away
ask.–.v..to.question;.to.say.some- attempt.–.v..to.work.toward.some-
thing.is.wanted.(“We ask the teacher thing;.to.try;.to.make.an.effort
questions every day.”)
attend.–.v..to.be.present.at
assist.–.v..to.help
attention.–.n..close.or.careful.observ-
astronaut.–.n..a. ing.of,.or.listening.to,.someone.or.
person.who.travels. something.(“The student paid atten-
in.space tion to his teacher.”)
astronomy.–.n..the. automobile.–.n..a.vehicle.with.wheels.
scientific.study.of. used.to.carry.people;.a.car
stars.and.the..
autumn.–.n..the.time.of.the.year..
universe
astronaut between.summer.and.winter
asylum.–.n..political.protection.given.
available.–.ad..present.and.ready.for.
by.a.government.to.a.person.from.
use;.willing.to.serve.or.help..(“There
another.country
was a list of available candidates.”)
at.–.prep..in.or.near.(“at the edge”);.
average.–.n..something.(a.number).
where.(“look at”);.when.(“at noon”)
representing.the.middle;.ad..common;.
atmosphere.–.n..the.gases.surround- normal
ing.any.star.or.planet
avoid.–.v..to.stay.away.from
atom.–.n..a.very.small.part.of.all.
awake.–.ad..not.sleeping
things;. the. smallest. part. of. an..
element.that.can.join.with.parts.of. award.–.n..an.honor.or.prize.for.an.
other.elements act.or.service
attach.–.v..to.tie.together;.to.connect away.–.ad..not.near
attack.–.n..a.violent.attempt.to.dam-
age,.injure.or.kill;.v..to.start.a.fight
learningenglish.voanews.com 15

B
baby.–.n..a.newly.born.creature base. –. n.. a. military. center;. v.. to..
establish.as.a.fact.(“Her research was
back.–.n..the.part.behind.the.front;.
based on experiments.”)
ad..the.other.way.from.forward
battle.–.n..a.fight.between.opposing.
bacteria.–.n..living.things.that.are.
armed.forces
one.cell.and.can.be.seen.only.through.
a.microscope;.some.cause.disease be.–.v..to.live;.to.happen;.to.exist
bad.–.ad..wrong;.acting.against.the. beat.–.v..to.hit.again.and.again
law;.not.good
beauty.–.n..that.which.pleases.the.
balance.–.v..to.make.two.sides.or. eye,.ear.or.spirit
forces.equal
because.–.prep..for.the.reason.that.
ball.–.n..something.round (“He left because he was sick.”)
become.–.v..to.come.to.be
bed.–.n..a.sleeping.place
ball before.–.prep..earlier
begin.–.v..to.do.the.first.part.of.an..
action;.to.start
behavior.–.n..the.way.in.which.a.
balloon.–.n..a.device.of.strong,.light. person.or.animal.acts.(“The child’s
material.that.rises.when.filled.with. behavior was bad because he fought
gas.lighter.than.air with other children.”)
ballot.–.n..a.piece.of.paper.used.for. behind.–.ad..at.the.back.of;.in.back.of
voting
believe.–.v..to.think;.to.feel.sure.of;.to.
ban.–.v..to.not.permit;.to.stop;.n..an. accept.as.true;.to.trust
official.restriction
belong.–.v..to.be.owned.by;.to.be.a.
bank.–.n..an.organization.that.keeps. member.of
and.lends.money
below.–.ad..lower.than
bar.–.v..to.prevent.or.block
best.–.ad..the.most.good
barrier.–.n..anything.that.blocks.or.
betray.–.v..to.turn.against;.to.be..
makes.an.action.difficult
false.to
16

baby • boy
better.–.ad..more.good.than bomb.–.n..a.device.that.explodes.
|     |     |     | with. great. | force;. v.. | to. attack. or.. |
| --- | --- | --- | ------------ | ----------- | ---------------- |
between.–.ad..in.the.space.or.time.
destroy.with.bombs
that.separates;.from.one.to.the.other.
(“talks between two nations”) bone.–.n..the.hard.material.in..
the.body
big.–.ad..of.great.size;.not.small
book.–.n..a.long.written.work..
bill.–.n..a.legislative.proposal
for.reading
biology.–.n..the.scientific.study.of.life.
| or.living.things.in.all.their.forms |     |     |     |     | book |
| ----------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- |
bird.–.n..a.creature.that.flies
bite.–.v..to.cut.with.the.teeth
black.–.ad..dark;.having.the.color.like.
that.of.the.night.sky
blame.–.v..to.accuse;.to.hold..
responsible
bleed.–.v..to.lose.blood
border.–.n..a.dividing.line.between.
nations
blind.–.ad..not.able.to.see
block.–.v..to.stop.something.from.. born.–.v..to.come.to.life;.to.come.into.
existence
being.done;.to.prevent.movement
blood.–.n..red.fluid.in.the.body borrow.–.v..to.take.as.a.loan
blow.–.v..to.move.with.force,.as.in.air. both.–.ad..not.just.one.of.two,.but.
| (“The wind blows.”) |     |     | the.two.together |     |     |
| ------------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | --- |
blue.–.ad..having.the.color.like.that. bottle.–.n..a.container,.usually.made.
| of.a.clear.sky |     |     | of.glass,.to.hold.liquid |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | --- |
boat.–.n..something.built.to.travel.on. bottom. –. ad.. the. lowest. part. of.
| water.that.carries.people.or.goods |     |     | something |     |     |
| ---------------------------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
body.–.n..all.of.a.person.or.animal;. box.–.n..something.to.put.things.
the.remains.of.a.person.or.animal into;. a. container,. usually. made. of..
paper.or.wood
| boil. –. v..                | to. heat. a. liquid. | until. it.. |                              |     |     |
| --------------------------- | -------------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------- | --- | --- |
| becomes.very.hot            |                      |             | boy.–.n..a.young.male.person |     |     |
| learningenglish.voanews.com |                      |             |                              |     | 17  |

boycott.–.v..to.refuse.to.take.part.in. brother.–.n..a.male.with.the.same..
or.deal.with father.or.mother.as.another.person
brain. –. n.. the. control. center. of. brown.–.ad..having.the.color.like.that.
thought,.emotions.and.body.activity. of.coffee
of.all.creatures
budget.–.n..a.spending.plan
brave.–.ad..having.no.fear
build.–.v..to.join.materials.together.
bread.–.n..a.food.made.from.grain to.make.something
break. –. v.. to. divide. into. parts. by. building.–.n..anything.built.for.use.as.
force;.to.destroy a.house,.factory,.office,.school,.store.
or.place.of.entertainment
breathe.–.v..to.take.air.into.the.body.
and.let.it.out.again bullet.–.n..a.small.piece.of.metal.shot.
from.a.gun
bridge.–.n..a.structure.built.over.a.
waterway,.valley.or.road.so.people. burn.–.v..to.be.on.fire;.to.destroy.or.
and.vehicles.can.cross.from.one.side. damage.by.fire
to.the.other
burst.–.v..to.break.open.suddenly
bury.–.v..to.put.into.the.ground.and.
cover.with.earth
bus.–.n..a.public.vehicle.to.carry.people
business.–.n..one’s.work;.buying.and.
selling.to.earn.money;.trade
busy. –. ad.. doing. something;. very..
bridge active
brief.–.ad..short;.not.long
but.–.conj..however;.other.than;.yet
bright.–.ad..giving.much.light;.strong.
buy.–.v..to.get.by.paying.something,.
and.clear.in.color
usually.money
bring.–.v..to.come.with.something
by.–.conj..near;.at;.next.to.(“by the
broadcast.–.v..to.send.information,. road”);. from. (“a play by William
stories.or.music.by.radio.or.televi- Shakespeare”);. not. later. than. (“by
sion;.n..a.radio.or.television.program midnight”)
18

C
cabinet.–.n..a.group.of.ministers.that. capture. –. v.. to. make. a. person. or..
helps.lead.a.government animal.a.prisoner;.to.seize.or.take.by.
force;.to.get.control.of
call.–.v..to.give.a.name.to.(“I call myself
John.”);.to.ask.for.or.request.(“They  car.–.n..a.vehicle.with.wheels.used.to.
called for an end to the fighting.”) carry.people;.an.automobile;.a.part.
of.a.train
calm.–.ad..quiet;.peaceful;.opposite.
| tense |     |     | care.–.v..to.like;.to.protect;.to.feel. |     |     |
| ----- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
worry.or.interest
| camera. –.         | n.. a. |     |                                          |     |     |
| ------------------ | ------ | --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| device.for.taking. |        |     | career.–.n..a.chosen.profession;.a.per-  |     |     |
| pictures           |        |     | son’s.working.life.(“The actor’s career  |     |     |
lasted for thirty years.”)
camp.–.n..a.place.
| with. temporary. |     |        | careful.–.ad..acting.safely;.with.much. |     |     |
| ---------------- | --- | ------ | --------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| housing          |     | camera | thought                                 |     |     |
campaign.–.n..a.competition.by.op- carry.–.v..to.take.something.or.some-
posing.political.candidates.seeking. one.from.one.place.to.another
| support. from. | voters;. | a. connected.. |     |     |     |
| -------------- | -------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- |
case (court).–.n..a.legal.action
series.of.military.actions.during.a.war
case (medical).–.n..an.incident.of.
can.–.v..to.be.able.to;.to.have.the.
disease.(“There was only one case of
right.to;.n..a.container.used.to.hold.
chicken pox at the school.”)
liquid.or.food,.usually.made.of.metal
cat.–.n..a.small.animal.that.often.
cancel.–.v..to.end;.to.stop
lives.with.humans
cancer.–.n..a.disease.in.which.dan-
catch.–.v..to.seize.after.a.chase;.to.
gerous.cells.grow.quickly.and.destroy.
stop.and.seize.with.the.hands
parts.of.the.body
cause.–.v..to.make.happen;.n..the.
candidate.–.n..a.person.who.seeks..
thing.or.person.that.produces.a.result
or.is.nominated.for.an.office.or.an.
| honor |     |     | ceasefire. | –. n.. a. halt. | in. fighting,.. |
| ----- | --- | --- | ---------- | --------------- | --------------- |
usually.by.agreement
| capital. –. | n.. the. official. | center. of.. |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ------------------ | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
a. government;. the. city. where. a.. celebrate.–.v..to.honor.a.person.or.
| country’s.government.is |     |     | event.with.special.activities |     |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------- | --- | --- |
learningenglish.voanews.com 19

cell.–.n..a.small.mass.of.living.material. how.they.act.under.different.con-
that.is.part.of.all.plants.and.animals ditions,. and. how. they. form. other..
substances
center.–.n..the.middle.of.something;.
the.place.in.the.middle;.a.place.that. chief.–.n..the.head.or.leader.of.a.
is.the.main.point.of.an.activity group;.ad..leading;.most.important
century.–.n..one.hundred.years child.–.n..a.baby;.a.boy.or.girl
ceremony.–.n..an.act.or.series.of.acts. children.–.n..more.than.one.child
done.in.a.special.way.established.by.
choose.–.v..to.decide.between.two..
tradition
or.more
| chairman. | –. n.. a. person. | leading. a. |     |     |     |
| --------- | ----------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
chromosome.–.n..a.line.of.genes;.
meeting.or.an.organized.group
|                                    |     |     | most. human. | cells. contain. | 46.. |
| ---------------------------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --------------- | ---- |
| champion.–.n..the.best;.the.winner |     |     | chromosomes  |                 |      |
chance.–.n..a.possibility.of.winning.or. circle.–.n..a.closed.shape.that.has.all.
losing.or.that.something.will.happen its.points.equally.distant.from.the.
center,.like.an.“O”
| change.          | –. v.. to. make. | different;. to. |                                        |     |     |
| ---------------- | ---------------- | --------------- | -------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| become.different |                  |                 | citizen.–.n..a.person.who.is.a.member. |     |     |
of.a.country.by.birth.or.by.law
charge.–.v..to.accuse.someone.of.
| something,. | usually.   | a. crime;. n.. a. |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ---------- | ----------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| statement.  | in. which. | someone. is..     |     |     |     |
accused.of.something
chase.–.v..to.run.or.go.after.someone.
or.something
| cheat. –. | v.. to. get. | by. a. trick;. to.. |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------------ | ------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
city
steal.from
city.–.n..any.important.large.town
cheer.–.v..to.shout.approval.or.praise
civilian.–.ad..not.military
| chemicals. | –. n.. elements. | found. in.. |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
nature.or.made.by.people;.substances. civil rights.–.n..the.political,.economic.
used.in.the.science.of.chemistry and.social.rights.given.equally.to.all.
people.of.a.nation
chemistry.–.n..the.scientific.study.of.
substances,.what.they.are.made.of,. claim.–.v..to.say.something.as.a.fact
20

cell • come
clash.–.n..a.battle;.v..to.fight.or.oppose cloud. –. n.. a. mass. of. fog. high. in..
the.sky
class.–.n..a.group.of.students.who.
meet.to.study.the.same.subject;.also. coal.–.n..a.solid.black.substance.used.
| a.social.or.economic.group..(“They  |     |     | as.fuel |     |     |
| ----------------------------------- | --- | --- | ------- | --- | --- |
were members of the middle class.”)
coalition.–.n..forces,.groups.or.nations.
| clean. –.   | v.. to. make. | pure;. ad.. free.. | joined.together |     |     |
| ----------- | ------------- | ------------------ | --------------- | --- | --- |
| from. dirt. | or. harmful.  | substances.        |                 |     |     |
coast.–.n..land.on.the.
(“clean water”)
edge.of.the.ocean
clear.–.ad..easy.to.see.or.see.through;.
|     |     |     | coffee. –. | n.. a. drink. |     |
| --- | --- | --- | ---------- | ------------- | --- |
easily.understood
made.from.the.plant.
| clergy.–.n..a.body.of.officials.within.a. |     |     | of.the.same.name |     |     |
| ----------------------------------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | --- |
coffee
religious.organization
|     |     |     | cold. –. | ad.. not. warm;. | having. or.. |
| --- | --- | --- | -------- | ---------------- | ------------ |
climate. –. n.. the. normal. weather.. feeling. great. coolness. or. a. low..
| conditions.of.a.place |     |     | temperature |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- |
climb.–.v..to.go.up.or.down.some- collapse.–.v..to.fall.down.or.inward.
thing.by.using.the.feet.and.some- suddenly;. to. break. down. or. fail..
| times.the.hands |     |     | suddenly.in.strength,.health.or.power.. |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
(“The building collapsed in the earth-
clock.–.n..a.device.that.measures.and.
|     |     |     | quake.”. “The  | government  | collapsed  |
| --- | --- | --- | -------------- | ----------- | ---------- |
shows.time
after a vote in parliament.”)
close.–.v..to.make.something.not.
collect.–.v..to.bring.or.gather.together.
open;.ad..near.to
in.one.place;.to.demand.and.receive.
| cloth. –. | n.. a. material.    | made. from. | (“collect taxes”) |     |     |
| --------- | ------------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | --- | --- |
| plants,.  | chemicals,. animal. | hair. and.  |                   |     |     |
college.–.n..a.small.university
other.substances
colony.–.n..land.controlled.by.another.
clothes.–.n..what.people.wear
country.or.government
color.–.n..the.different.effects.of.light.
on.the.eye,.making.blue,.red,.brown,.
black,.yellow.and.others
|     |     | clothes | combine.–.v..to.mix.or.bring.together |     |     |
| --- | --- | ------- | ------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
come.–.v..to.move.toward;.to.arrive
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 21  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

command.–.v..to.order;.to.have.power. compound.–.n..a.substance.containing.
| over.something |     |     | two.or.more.elements |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | -------------------- | --- | --- |
comment. –. v.. to. say. something. compromise.–.n..the.settlement.of.
about;.to.express.an.opinion.about. an.argument.where.each.side.agrees.
| something |     |     | to.accept.less.than.first.demanded |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------- | --- | --- |
computer.–.n..an.electronic.machine.
|     | I think... |     | for.storing.and.organizing.information,. |     |     |
| --- | ---------- | --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
and.for.communicating.with.others
concern.–.n..interest,.worry.(“express
comment
|     |     |     | concern  | about”);. v.. to. | fear. (“to  be   |
| --- | --- | --- | -------- | ----------------- | ---------------- |
concerned”)
condemn.–.v..to.say.a.person.or..
| committee.–.n..a.group.of.people.. |     |     | action.is.wrong.or.bad |     |     |
| ---------------------------------- | --- | --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
given.special.work
condition.–.n..something.declared.
common.–.ad..usual;.same.for.all.. necessary. to. complete. an. agree-
| (“a common purpose”) |     |     | ment;.a.person’s.health |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | ----------------------- | --- | --- |
communicate.–.v..to.tell;.to.give.or. conference.–.n..a.meeting
exchange.information
confirm.–.v..to.approve;.to.say.that.
| community.–.n..a.group.of.people.. |     |     | something.is.true |     |     |
| ---------------------------------- | --- | --- | ----------------- | --- | --- |
living.together.in.one.place.or.area
conflict.–.n..a.fight;.a.battle,.especially.
| company.–.n..a.business.organized.for. |     |     | a.long.one |     |     |
| -------------------------------------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- |
trade,.industrial.or.other.purposes
congratulate.–.v..to.praise.a.person.
compare. –. v.. to. examine. what. is.. or.to.express.pleasure.for.success.or.
| different.or.similar |     |     | good.luck |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | --- |
compete.–.v..to.try.to.do.as.well.as,.or. Congress. –. n.. the. organization. of.
better.than,.another.or.others people.elected.to.make.the.laws.of.
the.United.States.(the.House.of.Rep-
| complete. | –. ad.. having. | all. parts;.. |     |     |     |
| --------- | --------------- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- |
resentatives.and.the.Senate);.a.simi-
ended.or.finished
lar.organization.in.other.countries
| complex.     | –. ad.. of. or. | having. many. |          |                       |             |
| ------------ | --------------- | ------------- | -------- | --------------------- | ----------- |
|              |                 |               | connect. | –. v.. to. join. one. | thing. to.. |
| parts. that. | are. difficult. | to. under-    |          |                       |             |
another;.to.unite;.to.link
stand;.not.simple
22

command • create
conservative.–.n..one.who.usually. copy.–.v..to.make.something.exactly.
supports.tradition.and.opposes.great. like.another;.n..something.made.to.
change look.exactly.like.anoth-
er
consider.–.v..to.give.thought.to;.to.
think.about.carefully corn.–.n..a.food.grain
constitution.–.n..the.written.general. correct.–.ad..true;.free.
laws.and.ideas.that.form.a.nation’s. from. mistakes;. v.. to.
system.of.government change.to.what.is.right
contact.–.n..the.act.of.touching.or. corruption.–.n..actions. corn
being.close.to.a.person.or.thing.(“He taken.to.gain.money.or.power.that.
was in contact with animals that had are.legally.or.morally.wrong
the disease.”).v..to.meet.or.communi-
cost.–.n..the.price.or.value.of.some-
cate.with.(“He wanted to contact his
thing.(“The cost of the book is five
local official.”)
dollars.”);.v..to.be.valued.at
contain.–.v..to.hold;.to.include
cotton.–.n..a.material.made.from.a.
container.–.n..a.box,.bottle.or.can. plant.of.the.same.name
used.to.hold.something
count.–.v..to.speak.or.add.numbers
continent.–.n..any.of.the.seven.great.
country.–.n..a.nation;.the.territory.of.
land.areas.of.the.world
a.nation;.land.away.from.cities
continue.–.v..to.go.on.doing.or.being
court.–.n..where.trials.take.place;.where.
control.–.v..to.direct;.to.have.. judges.make.decisions.about.law
power.over
cover.–.v..to.put.something.over.a.
convention.–.n..a. person.or.thing;.n..anything.that.is.
large.meeting.for. put.over.a.person.or.thing
a.special.purpose
cow.–.n..a.farm.animal.used.for.its.milk
cook.–.v..to.heat.
crash.–.v..to.fall.violently;.to.hit.with.
food. before. eat-
great.force
ing.it
cook
create.–.v..to.make;.to.give.life.or.
cool.–.ad..almost.cold
form.to
cooperate.–.v..to.act.or.work.together
learningenglish.voanews.com 23

creature.–.n..any.living.being;.any.. crush.–.v..to.damage.or.destroy.by.
animal.or.human great.weight;.to.defeat.completely
credit.–.n..an.agreement.that.pay- cry.–.v..to.express.or.show.sorrow..
ments.will.be.made.at.a.later.time or.pain
crew.–.n..a.group.of.people.working. culture.–.n..all.the.beliefs,.traditions.
together and.arts.of.a.group.or.population
crime.–.n..an.act.that.violates.a.law cure. –. v.. to. improve. health;. to.
make.well.(“The doctor can cure the
criminal.–.n..a.person.who.is.respon-
disease.”);.n..something.that.makes.
sible.for.a.crime
a.sick.person.well.(“Antibiotics are a
crisis.–.n..an.extremely.important. cure for infection.”)
time.when.something.may.become.
curfew.–.n..an.order.to.people.to.
much.better.or.worse;.a.dangerous.
stay.off.the.streets.or.to.close.their..
situation
businesses
criticize.–.v..to.say.what.is.wrong.
current.–.n..movement.of.air,.water.
with.something.or.someone;.to.con-
or.electricity;.ad..belonging.to.the.
demn;.to.judge
present.time.(“She found the report
crops.–.n..plants.that.are.grown.and. in a current publication.”)
gathered. for. food,. such. as. grains,.
custom.–.n..a.long-established.belief.
fruits.and.vegetables
or.activity.of.a.people
cross.–.v..to.go.from.one.side.to..
customs.–.n..taxes.on.imports
another;.to.go.across
cut.–.v..to.divide.or.injure.with.a.
crowd.–.n..a.large.number.of.people.
sharp.tool;.to.make.less;.to.reduce
gathered.in.one.place
24

D
dam.–.n..a.wall.built.across.a.river.to. deal.–.v..to.have.to.do.with.(“The talks
| hold.back.flowing.water |     |     | will deal with the problem of pollu- |     |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- | --- |
tion.”);.to.buy.or.sell.(“Her company
deals in plastic.”).n..an.agreement
debate.–.v..to.argue.for.or.against.
something;.n..a.public.discussion.or.
argument
debt.–.n..something.that.is.owed;.
the.condition.of.owing
dam
|     |     |     | decide. –. | v.. to. choose;. | to. settle;.. |
| --- | --- | --- | ---------- | ---------------- | ------------- |
to.judge
| damage. | –. v.. to. cause. | injury. or.. |     |     |     |
| ------- | ----------------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
declare.–.v..to.say;.to.make.a.statement
destruction;.n..harm;.hurt.or.injury,.
| usually.to.things |     |     | decrease.–.v..to.make.less.in.size.. |     |     |
| ----------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- | --- |
or.amount
dance.–.v..to.move.the.body.and.feet.
to.music;.n..a.series.of.steps,.usually. deep.–.ad..going.far.down;.a.long.
| to.music |     |     | way.from.top.to.bottom |     |     |
| -------- | --- | --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
danger.–.n..a.strong.chance.of.suffer- defeat.–.v..to.cause.to.lose.in.a.battle.
ing.injury,.damage.or.loss or.struggle;.n..a.loss;.the.condition.of.
having.lost
dark.–.ad..having.little.or.no.light.
(“The room was dark.”) defend.–.v..to.guard.or.fight.against.
attack;.to.protect
date.–.n..an.expression.of.time;.a.day,.
| month.and.year |     |     | deficit.–.n..a.shortage.that.results. |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
when.spending.is.greater.than.earn-
daughter.–.n..a.person’s.female.child
|             |              |              | ings,. or. | imports. are. | greater. than.. |
| ----------- | ------------ | ------------ | ---------- | ------------- | --------------- |
| day. –. n.. | twenty–four. | hours;. the. | exports    |               |                 |
hours.of.sunlight
define.–.v..to.give.the.meaning.of;..
| dead.–.ad..not.living |     |     | to.explain |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | --- |
deaf.–.ad..not.able.to.hear degree.–.n..a.measure.of.temperature
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 25  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

delay.–.v..to.decide.to.do.something. describe.–.v..to.give.a.word.picture..
at.a.later.time;.to.postpone;.to.cause. of. something;. to. give. details. of.
to.be.late something
delegate. –. n.. one. sent. to. act. for.. desert.–.n..a.dry.area.of.land
another;.one.who.represents.another
desert
demand.–.v..to.ask.by.ordering;.to.
ask.with.force
democracy.–.n..the.system.of.gov-
ernment.in.which.citizens.vote.to.
choose.leaders.or.to.make.other.im-
portant.decisions
demonstrate.–.v..to.make.a.public.
show.of.opinions.or.feelings.(“The
crowd demonstrated in support of design.–.v..to.plan.or.create.plans.for
human rights.”);.to.explain.by.using.
desire.–.v..to.want.very.much;.to..
examples.(“The teacher demonstrated
wish.for
the idea with an experiment.”)
destroy.–.v..to.break.into.pieces;.to.
dense.–.ad..close.together;.thick
end.the.existence.of
denounce. –. v.. to. accuse. of. being.
detail.–.n..a.small.part.of.something;.
wrong.or.evil;.to.criticize.severely
a.small.piece.of.information
deny.–.v..to.declare.that.something.is.
detain. –. v.. to. keep. or. hold. (“The
not.true;.to.refuse.a.request
police detained several suspects for
depend.–.v..to.need.help.and.support questioning.”)
deplore.–. v..to.regret.strongly;.to.. develop.–.v..to.grow;.to.create;.to..
express.sadness experience.progress
deploy.–.v..to.move.forces.or.weap- device. –. n.. a. piece. of. equipment.
ons.into.positions.for.action made.for.a.special.purpose
depression. –. n.. severe. unhappi- dictator.–.n..a.ruler.with.complete.
ness;.a.period.of.reduced.business. power
and.economic.activity.during.which.
die.–.v..to.become.dead;.to.stop.living;.
many.people.lose.their.jobs
to.end
26

delay • doctor
diet.–.n..usual.daily.food.and.drink disaster.–.n..an.event.causing.wide-
|     |     |     | spread. destruction. | or. | loss. of. life,. |
| --- | --- | --- | -------------------- | --- | ---------------- |
different.–.ad..not.the.same
such.as.an.earthquake.or.plane.crash
difficult.–.ad..not.easy;.hard.to.do,.
discover.–.v..to.find.or.learn.something
make.or.carry.out
discrimination.–.n..unfair.treatment.
dig.–.v..to.make.a.hole.in.the.ground
or.consideration.based.on.opinions.
dinner.–.n..the.main.amount.of.food. about.a.whole.group.instead.of.on.
eaten.at.a.usual.time.(“The family had  the.qualities.of.an.individual..(“He
its dinner at noon.”);.a.special.event. was accused of discrimination against
that.includes.food.(“The official dinner  people from other countries.”)
took place at the White House.”)
discuss.–.v..to.talk.about;.to.exchange.
| diplomat. | –. n.. a. person.         | who. rep- | ideas |     |     |
| --------- | ------------------------- | --------- | ----- | --- | --- |
| resents.  | his. or. her. government. | in.       |       |     |     |
disease.–.n..a.sickness.in.living.things,.
dealing.with.another.government
|                                      |                 |               | often. caused. | by. viruses,. | germs. or. |
| ------------------------------------ | --------------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| direct.–.v..to.lead;.to.aim.or.show. |                 |               | bacteria       |               |            |
| the. way.                            | (“He  directed  | me  to  the   |                |               |            |
dismiss.–.v..to.send.away;.to.refuse.
theater.”);.ad..straight.to.something;.
to.consider
not.through.some.other.person.or.
thing.(“The path is direct.”) dispute.–.v..to.oppose.strongly.by..
argument;.n..an.angry.debate
| direction.   | –. n.. the. |     |                                       |     |     |
| ------------ | ----------- | --- | ------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| way. (east,. | west,.      |     | dissident.–.n..a.person.who.strongly. |     |     |
| north,.      | south);.    |     | disagrees.with.his.or.her.government  |     |     |
where.someone.or.
distance.–.n..the.amount.of.space.
| something. | came. |      |                                      |     |     |
| ---------- | ----- | ---- | ------------------------------------ | --- | --- |
|            |       | dirt | between.two.places.or.objects.(“The  |     |     |
from.or.went.to
distance from my house to your house
| dirt.–.n..earth.. |     |     | is two kilometers.”) |     |     |
| ----------------- | --- | --- | -------------------- | --- | --- |
or.soil
dive.–.v..to.jump.into.water.head.first
disappear.–.v..to.
divide.–.v..to.separate.into.two.or.
become.unseen;.to.no.longer.exist
more.parts
| disarm. | –. v.. to. take. | away. weap- |     |     |     |
| ------- | ---------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
do.–.v..to.act;.to.make.an.effort
| ons;. to. | no. longer. | keep. weap- |     |     |     |
| --------- | ----------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
ons;.to.make.a.bomb.harmless.by.. doctor.–.n..a.person.trained.in.medicine.
| removing.its.exploding.device |     |     | to.treat.sick.people |     |     |
| ----------------------------- | --- | --- | -------------------- | --- | --- |
| learningenglish.voanews.com   |     |     |                      |     | 27  |

document.–.n..an.official.piece.of.. down.–.ad..from.higher.to.lower;.in.
paper.with.facts.written.on.it,.used. a.low.place
as.proof.or.support.of.something
dream.–.v..to.have.a.picture.or.story.
dog.–.n..a.small.animal.that.often. in.the.mind.during.sleep;.n..a.picture.
lives.with.humans or.story.in.the.mind.during.sleep;.a.
happy.idea.about.the.future
dollar.–.n..United.States.money,.one.
hundred.cents drink.–.v..to.take.liquid.into.the.body.
through.the.mouth
dollar
drive.–.v..to.control.a.moving.vehicle
drop.–.v..to.fall.or.let.fall;.to.go.lower
drown.–.v..to.die.under.water
drug.–.n..anything.used.as.a.medicine..
or.in.making.medicine;.a.chemical.
substance.used.to.ease.pain.or.to..
affect.the.mind
donate. –. v.. to. present. something.
as.a.gift.to.an.organization,.country. dry.–.ad..not.wet;.without.rain
or. cause.. (“She donated money to
during.–.ad..through.the.whole.time;.
the Red Cross to help survivors of the
while.(something.is.happening)
earthquake.”)
dust.–.n..pieces.of.matter.so.small.
door.–.n..an.opening.for.entering.or.
that.they.can.float.in.the.air
leaving.a.building.or.room
duty.–.n..one’s.job.or.responsibility;.
double.–.v..to.increase.two.times.as.
what.one.must.do.because.it.is.right.
much.in.size,.strength.or.number.
and.just
28

E
each.–.ad..every.one.by.itself effort. –. n.. an. attempt;. the. work..
necessary.to.do.something
early.–.ad..at.or.near.the.beginning,.
especially.the.beginning.of.the.day;.
egg.–.n..the.rounded.object.containing.
| opposite.late |     |     | unborn.young.produced.by.female. |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | -------------------------------- | --- | --- |
birds,.fish.or.reptiles;.a.single.cell.in.
earn.–. v..to.be.
a.female.person.or.animal.that.can.
paid.in.return.for.
develop.into.a.baby
work.done
|           |          |     | either. –. | ad.. one. of. two,. | but. not.. |
| --------- | -------- | --- | ---------- | ------------------- | ---------- |
| earth. –. | n.. the. |     |            |                     |            |
the.other
planet.we.all.live.
| on;. the. | ground. |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
elect.–.v..to.choose.by.voting
| or.soil |     | earth |     |     |     |
| ------- | --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- |
electron.–.n..a.small.part.of.an.atom.
| earthquake. | –. n.. a.sudden,.violent. |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
that.has.an.electrical.force
shaking.of.the.earth’s.surface
electricity.–.n..a.form.of.energy.that.
| ease. –. | v.. to. reduce;. | to. make. less.. |     |     |     |
| -------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- |
flows.through.wires.to.provide.heat.
| difficult |     |     | and.light,.and.power.to.machines |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | -------------------------------- | --- | --- |
east.–.n..the.direction.from.which.
element.–.n..one.of.more.than.100.
the.sun.rises
|     |     |     | substances. | known. to. | science. that. |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------- | ---------- | -------------- |
easy.–.ad..not.difficult;.not.hard.to.do cannot. be. separated. into. other..
substances
eat.–.v..to.take.food.into.the.body.
| through.the.mouth |     |     | embassy.–.n..the.offices.of.an.ambas- |     |     |
| ----------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
sador.and.his.or.her.assistants
ecology.–.n..the.scientific.study.of.
the. environment. and. links. among. embryo.–.n..a.human.or.animal.in.the.
living.and.material.things earliest.stages.of.its.development
economy.–.n..the.system.by.which.mon- emergency.–.n..an.unexpected.and.
ey,.industry.and.trade.are.organized dangerous. situation. demanding.
quick.action
edge.–.n..the.line.where.something.
| ends.or.begins |     |     | emotion.–.n..a.strong.feeling.such.as. |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
love,.hate,.fear.or.sadness
education.–.n..the.act.of.teaching
employ.–.v..to.give.work.in.return.for.
| effect. –. | n.. the. result. | or. change. |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
wages
| caused. | by. something. | (“The  storm  |     |     |     |
| ------- | -------------- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- |
had a serious effect on the economy.”)
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 29  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

empty.–.ad..having.nothing.inside;.. equipment.–.n..things,.tools.or.ma-
v..to.remove.everything chines.needed.for.a.purpose.or.activity
end.–.v..to.stop;.to.finish;.n..the.part. escape.–.v..to.get.free;.to.get.away.
| which.comes.last |     |     | from;.to.get.out.of |     |     |
| ---------------- | --- | --- | ------------------- | --- | --- |
enemy. –. n.. a. person. opposing. or.. especially. –. ad.. more. than. others.
hating.another;.a.person.or.people.of. (“We liked the food, especially the fish.”)
the.other.side.in.a.war
establish.–.v..to.bring.into.existence;.
| energy.–.n..power.used.to.do.work,. |            |               | to.create |                  |              |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------- | ------------- | --------- | ---------------- | ------------ |
| usually. with.                      | machines;. | the. ability. |           |                  |              |
|                                     |            |               | estimate. | –. v.. to. form. | an. opinion. |
and.willingness.to.be.active
about.a.value,.size.or.amount.using.
enforce.–.v..to.make.something.be.done less.than.complete.information
engine.–.n..a.machine.that.uses.ener- ethnic.–.ad..of.or.concerning.people.
gy.to.cause.movement.or.to.do.work belonging.to.a.large.group.because.
of.their.race,.religion,.language,.tribe.
engineer.–.n..a.person.who.designs.
or.where.their.ancestors.lived
engines,.machines,.roads,.bridges.or.
| railroads |     |     | evaporate.–.v..to.change.from.a.liquid. |     |     |
| --------- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
into.a.gas
enjoy.–.v..to.be.pleased.or.satisfied.
| by.something |     |     | even. –. | ad.. in. a. way. | not. thought.. |
| ------------ | --- | --- | -------- | ---------------- | -------------- |
possible.(“They survived, even though
enough.–.ad..as.much.as.necessary
the building was destroyed.”)
enter.–.v..to.come.or.go.into
event.–.n..that.which.happens,.espe-
environment. –. n.. all. surrounding. cially.something.of.importance
| things,. conditions. | and. | influences. |     |     |     |
| -------------------- | ---- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- |
ever.–.ad..at.any.time
that.affect.life;.the.natural.world.of.
| land,.sea,.air,.plants.and.animals |     |     | every.–.ad..each.one;.all |     |     |
| ---------------------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------- | --- | --- |
enzyme.–.n..a.special.kind.of.protein;. evidence.–.n..material.or.facts.that.
it. produces. changes. in. other. sub- prove.something;.a.reason.for.believing
stances.without.being.changed.itself
evil.–.ad..not.good;.extremely.bad
equal.–.ad..the.same.in.amount,.size,.
|             |                 |            | exact. –. | ad.. having. | no. mistakes;.. |
| ----------- | --------------- | ---------- | --------- | ------------ | --------------- |
| weight. or. | value;. having. | the. same. |           |              |                 |
correct.in.every.detail
rights
examine.–.v..to.study.closely
30

empty • extremist
example.–.n..a.part.that.shows.what. experiment.–.v..to.test;.n..a.test.or.
the.rest.of.a.thing.or.group.is.like trial.carried.out.to.prove.if.an.idea.is.
true.or.false,.or.to.discover.something
excellent.–.ad..extremely.good
expert. –. n.. a. person. with. special.
except.–.prep..but.for
knowledge.or.training
exchange.–.v..to.trade;.to.give.or..
explain.–.v..to.give.reasons.for;.to.
receive.one.thing.for.another
make.clear;.to.tell.about;.to.tell.the.
excuse.–.v..to.take.away.blame;.to. meaning
pardon;.to.forgive;.n..a.reason.(some-
explode.–.v..to.break.apart.violently.
times.false).for.an.action
with.a.loud.noise,.like.a.bomb
execute.–.v..to.kill
explore.–.v..to.travel.in.a.place.that.is.
exercise.–.n..an.activity.or.effort.for. not.well.known.to.learn.more.about.
the.purpose.of.improving.the.body.or. it;.to.make.a.careful.search;.to.exam-
to.stay.in.good.health ine.closely
exile.–.v..to.force.a.person.to.leave. export.–.v..to.send.to.another.coun-
his.or.her.country;.to.expel;.n..a.per- try;. n.. something. sent. to. another.
son.who.is.forced.to.leave.his.or.her. country,.usually.for.sale
country
express.–.v..to.say.clearly
exist.–.v..to.be;.to.live
extend.–.v..to.stretch.out.in.area.or.
expand.–.v..to.make.larger;.to.grow. length;.to.continue.for.a.longer.time
larger
extra.–.ad..more.than.normal,.expected.
expect.–.v..to.think.or.believe.that. or.necessary
something.will.happen;.to.wait.for.
extraordinary.–.ad..far.greater.or.better.
an.event
than.the.usual.or.normal
expel.–.v..to.force.out;.to.remove.
extreme.–.ad..more.than.the.usual.or.
from;.to.send.away
accepted
experience.–.v..to.live.through.an.
extremist.–.n..a.person.with.strong.
event,. situation. or. condition. (“She
religious.or.political.beliefs.who.acts.
experienced great pain.”);.n..some-
in.an.extreme.or.violent.way
thing. that. one. has. done. or. lived.
through.(“The experience caused her
great pain.”)
learningenglish.voanews.com 31

F
face.–.n..the.front.of.the.head:.eyes,. to.keep.warm;.ad..thick;.heavy
nose,.mouth;.v..to.look.toward;.to.
father.–.n..the.male.parent;.a.man.
turn.toward;.to.have.before.you,.such.
who.has.a.child.or.children
as.a.problem.or.danger
favorite.–.ad..liked.more.than.others.
fact.–.n..something.known.or.proved.
(“Ice cream was her favorite food.”)
to.be.true
fear.–.v..to.be.afraid;.to.worry.that.
factory.–.n..a.building.or.group.of.
something.bad.is.near.or.may.hap-
buildings.where.goods.are.made
pen.(“He feared falling down.”);.n..a.
fail.–.v..to.not.succeed;.to.not.reach. strong.emotion.when.there.is.dan-
a.goal ger.or.trouble.(“He had a fear that he
would fall down.”)
fair.–.ad..just;.honest;.what.is.right
federal.–.ad..of.or.having.to.do.with.a.
fall.–.v..to.go.down.quickly;.to.come.
national.or.central.government
down;.to.drop.to.the.ground.or.a.
lower.position feed.–.v..to.give.food.to
false.–.ad..not.true;.not.correct feel.–.v..to.have.or.experience.an.
emotion;.to.know.by.touching
family.–.n..the.group.that.includes.
children.and.their.parents female.–.n..a.woman.or.girl;.the.sex.
that.gives.birth;.ad..of.or.about.women
famous. –. ad.. known. very. well. to.
many.people fence.–.n..something.around.an.area.
of.land.to.keep.animals.or.people.in.
fan.–.n..a.person.who.actively.sup-
or.out
ports.a.sport,.activity.or.performer.
(“The baseball fan attended every fertile. –. ad.. rich. in. production. of.
game his team played.”) plants.or.animals;.producing.much
far.–.ad..at,.to.or.from.a.great.distance fetus.–.n..unborn.young
farm.–.n..land.used.to.grow.crops.and. few.–.ad..not.many;.a.small.number.of
animals.for.food
field.–.n..an.area.of.open.land,.usu-
fast.–.ad..moving.or.working.at.great. ally.used.to.grow.crops.or.to.raise.
speed;.quick animals
fat.–.n..tissue.in.the.bodies.of.humans. fierce.–.ad..extremely.strong;.violent;.
and.animals.used.to.store.energy.and. angry
32

face • flood
fight.–.v..to.use.violence.or.force;.. firm. –. ad.. not. easily. moved. or.
to.attempt.to.defeat.or.destroy.an.. changed.(“She is firm in her opinion.”)
enemy;.n..the.use.of.force;.a.battle
first.–.ad..coming.before.all.others
fill.–.v..to.put.or.pour.something.into.
fish.–.n..a.creature.that.lives.and.can.
a.container.until.there.is.space.for..
breathe.in.water
no.more
film.–.v..to.record.something.so.it.
can.be.seen.again;.to.make.a.motion.
picture.or.movie;.n..a.thin.piece.of.
material.for.making.pictures.with.a.
camera;.a.movie
final.–.ad..at.the.end;.last
fish
financial.–.ad..of.or.about.the.system.
that.includes.the.use.of.money,.cred-
fission. –. n.. a. splitting;. in. atomic..
it,.investments.and.banks
fission,.the.nucleus.of.an.atom.is.
find.–.v..to.discover.or.learn.some- split.to.produce.nuclear.energy
thing.by.searching.or.by.accident;.to.
fit.–.v..to.be.of.the.correct.size.or.
decide.a.court.case.(“The jury finds
shape.(“These shoes fit my feet.”)
the man guilty of murder.”)
fix.–.v..to.make.good.or.right.again
fine.–.n..a.payment.ordered.by.a.
court.to.punish.someone.for.a.crime;. flag.–.n..a.piece.of.colored.cloth.used.
ad..very.good;.very.small.or.thin to.represent.a.nation,.government.or.
organization
finish.–.v..to.com-
plete;.to.end flat.–.ad..smooth;.having.no.high.
places
fire. –. v.. to. shoot.
a.gun;.n..the.heat. flee.–.v..to.run.away.from
and.light.produced.
float.–.v..to.be.on.water.without.sink-
by. something.
ing;.to.move.or.be.moved.gently.on.
burning fire
water.or.through.air
fireworks. –. n.. rockets. producing.
flood.–.v..to.cover.with.water;.n..the.
bright.fire.in.the.sky,.used.in.holiday.
movement.of.water.out.of.a.river,.
celebrations
lake.or.ocean.onto.land
learningenglish.voanews.com 33

floor.–.n..the.bottom.part.of.a.room. one dollar for the book.”);.through.
for.walking.on.(“The book fell to the space.or.time.(“They traveled for one
floor.”);.the.level.of.a.building.(“The hour.”);.representative.of.(“I speak for
fire was on the first floor.”) all people.”);.to.be.employed.by.(“She
works for a computer company.”)
flow.–.v..to.move.like.a.liquid
force.–.v..to.make.someone.do.some-
flower. –. n.. the. col-
thing. or. make. something. happen.
ored. part. of. plants.
by.using.power;.n..power,.strength;.
that.carry.seeds
strength.used.against.a.person.or.
fluid. –. n.. any. sub- object;.military.power.of.a.nation;.a.
stance.that.can.flow,. military.group
such.as.a.liquid
foreign.–.ad..of,.about.or.from.anoth-
flower
fly. –. v.. to. move. er.nation;.not.from.one’s.own.place.
through.the.air.with.wings,.like.a.bird. or.country
or.airplane;.to.travel.in.an.airplane.or.
forest.–.n..a.place.of.many.trees
flying.vehicle
forget.–.v..to.not.remember
fog.–.n..a.mass.of.wet.air.that.is..
difficult.to.see.through;.a.cloud.close. forgive.–.v..to.pardon;.to.excuse;.to.
to.the.ground remove.guilt
follow.–.v..to.come.or.go.after;.to.. form.–.v..to.make;.to.start;.to.shape.
accept.the.rule.or.power.of;.to.obey (“They formed a swim team.”);.n..a.
kind.(“Swimming is a form of exercise.”)
food.–.n..that.which.is.taken.in.by.all.
living.things.for.energy,.strength.and. former.–.ad..earlier.in.time;.not.now
growth
fool.–.v..to.make.someone.believe.
something.that.is.not.true;.to.trick;.
n..a.person.who.is.tricked.easily
foot.–.n..the.bottom.part.of.the.leg;.
the.part.of.the.body.that.touches.the.
ground.when.a.person.or.animal.walks
for.–.prep..because.of.(“He is famous
for his work.”);.in.exchange.(“Give me forest
34

floor • future
forward.–.ad..the.direction.in.front. fun.–.n..anything.that.is.pleasing.and.
| of;.toward.the.front |     |     | causes.happiness |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | --- |
free.–.v..to.release;.ad..not.controlled. funeral.–.n..a.ceremony.held.in.con-
by.another.or.by.outside.forces;.not. nection.with.the.burial.or.burning.of.
| in.prison;.independent;.not.limited. |     |     | the.dead |     |     |
| ------------------------------------ | --- | --- | -------- | --- | --- |
by.rules;.without.cost
|     |     |     | fusion. –. | n.. a. joining. together;. | in. |
| --- | --- | --- | ---------- | -------------------------- | --- |
freedom.–.n..the.condition.of.being. atomic.fusion,.atomic.particles.are.
| free |     |     | joined.together.to.produce.nuclear. |     |     |
| ---- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- | --- | --- |
energy
freeze.–.v..to.cause.or.to.become.
very.cold;.to.make.or.to.become.hard.. future.–.n..time.after.now.(“We can
| by.cold |     |     | talk about it in the future.”);.ad..in.the. |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
time.to.come.(“All future meetings
fresh.–.ad..newly.made.or.gathered;.
will be held in this room.”)
recent
friend.–.n..a.person.one.likes.and.trusts
frighten.–.v..to.cause.great.fear
from.–.prep..having.a.person,.place.
or.thing.as.a.beginning.or.cause.(“It
is a message from the president.”);.at.
a.place.distant,.not.near.(“The school
is five kilometers from my home.”);.
| because. | of. (“He  is  suffering  | from   |     |     |     |
| -------- | ------------------------ | ------ | --- | --- | --- |
cancer.”)
| front. –. | n.. the. forward. | part;. the.. |     |     |     |
| --------- | ----------------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
opposite.of.back;.the.beginning;.the.
first.part
fruit.–.n..food.from.trees.and.plants
fuel.–.n..any.substance.burned.to..
create.heat.or.power
full.–.ad..containing.as.much.as.a.
person.or.thing.can.hold;.complete
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 35  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

G
gain.–.v..to.get.possession.of;.to.get. get.–.v..to.receive;.to.gain;.to.go.and.
more;.to.increase bring.back;.to.become;.to.become.
the.owner.of
game.–.n..an.activity.with.rules.in.
which.people.or.teams.play.or.com- gift.–.n..something.given.without.
pete,.usually.sports cost
gas.–.n..any.substance.that.is.not.. girl.–.n..a.young.female.person
solid.or.liquid;.any.substance.that.
give.–.v..to.present.to.another.to.
burns.to.provide.heat,.light.or.power
keep.without.receiving.payment
gather.–.v..to.bring.or.come.together.
glass. –. n.. a. hard,.
into.a.group.or.place;.to.collect
clear.material.that.
general.–.n..a.high.military.leader;. is. easily. broken,.
ad..without.details;.affecting.or.in- used. most. often.
cluding.all.or.almost.all for.windows.or.for.
containers.to.hold.
generation.–.n..a.group.of.individuals.
liquids
born.and.living.about.the.same.time.. glass
(“The mother and daughter represented go.–.v..to.move.from.one.place.to..
two generations.”) another;.to.leave
genes.–.n..parts.of.cells.that.control. goal.–.n..that.toward.which.an.effort.
the.growth.and.development.of.liv- is.directed;.that.which.is.aimed.at;.
ing.things;.genes.from.the.mother. the.end.of.a.trip.or.race
and.father.are.passed.to.the.child;.
god.–.n..the.spirit.that.is.honored.as.
genes.contain.nucleic.acid
creator.of.all.things.(“They believe in
genetic engineering.–.n..the.science. God.”);.a.spirit.or.being.believed.in.
of. changing. the. genes. of. a. living.. many.religions.to.have.special.powers
organism
gold.–.n..a.highly.valued.yellow.metal
genocide.–.n..a.plan.of.action.to.kill.
good.–.ad..pleasing;.helpful;.kind;.
or.destroy.a.national,.religious,.racial.
correct;.not.bad
or.ethnic.group
goods.–.n..things.owned.or.made.to.
gentle.–.adj..soft;.kind;.not.rough.or.
be.sold
violent
36

gain • gun
govern. –. v.. to. control;. to. rule. by.. ground.–.n..land;.the.earth’s.surface;.
| military.or.political.power |     |     | soil |     |     |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --- |
government.–.n..a.system.of.govern- group.–.n..a.number.of.people.or.
ing;.the.organization.of.people.that. things.together;.a.gathering.of.people.
| rules.a.country,.city.or.area |             |     | working.for.a.common.purpose            |     |     |
| ----------------------------- | ----------- | --- | --------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| grain.–.n..the.seed.          |             |     | grow.–.v..to.develop.or.become.bigger;. |     |     |
| of. grass.                    | plants.     |     | to.increase.in.size.or.amount           |     |     |
| used.                         | for. food,. |     |                                         |     |     |
guarantee.–.v..to.promise.a.result;.to.
| such. as. | wheat,. |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
promise.that.something.will.happen
| rice. and.         | corn;. |     |                                        |     |     |
| ------------------ | ------ | --- | -------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| those.plants.that. |        |     | guard.–.v..to.watch.and.protect.a.per- |     |     |
| produce.the.seeds  |        |     | son,.place.or.thing.(“He guards the    |     |     |
grain
president.”);.n..a.person.or.thing.that.
grass.–.n..a.plant.with.long,.narrow,.
watches.or.protects.(“He is a prison
green.leaves
guard.”)
gravity.–.n..the.force.that.pulls.things.
guerrilla.–.n..a.person.who.fights.as.
toward.the.center.of.the.Earth
part.of.an.unofficial.army,.usually.
gray.–.ad..having.the.color.like.that. against.an.official.army.or.police
made.by.mixing.black.and.white
guide.–.v..to.lead.to;.to.show.the.
great.–.ad..very.large.or.more.than. way;.n..one.who.shows.the.way
usual.in.size.or.number;.very.good;.
|     |     |     | guilty. –. ad.. | having. done. | some- |
| --- | --- | --- | --------------- | ------------- | ----- |
important
thing.wrong.or.in.violation.of.a.law;..
green.–.ad..having.the.color.like.that. responsible.for.a.bad.action
| made. by. | mixing. yellow. and. | blue;. |     |     |     |
| --------- | -------------------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- |
gun.–.n..a.weapon.that.shoots.bullets
having.the.color.like.that.of.growing.
leaves.and.grass
grind.–.v..to.reduce.to.small.pieces..
by.crushing
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 37  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

H
hair.–.n..the.fine.material.that.grows. have.–.v..to.possess;.to.own;.to.hold
from.the.skin,.especially.from.the.head
he.–.pro..the.boy.or.man.who.is.being.
half.–.n..one.of.two.equal.parts.of. spoken.about
something
head. –. v.. to. lead;. to. command;..
halt.–.v..to.come.or.cause.to.come.to. n..leader;.chief;.the.top.part.of.some-
a.stop;.to.stop thing;.the.highest.position
hang.–.v..to.place.something.so.the. headquarters.–.n..the.center.from.
highest.part.is.supported.and.the. which. orders. are. given;. the. main..
lower.part.is.not;.to.kill.by.hanging offices.of.a.business.or.organization
happen.–.v..to.become.a.fact.or.event;. heal.–.v..to.return.to.good.health;.to.
to.take.place cure;.to.become.well
happy.–.ad..pleased;.satisfied;.feel- health.–.n..the.general.condition.of.
ing.good;.not.sad the.body.and.mind;.the.condition.of.
being.free.from.sickness.or.disease
hear.–.v..to.receive.sound.through.
the.ears;.to.receive.news.about
heat. –. v.. to. make. hot. or. warm;..
n..great.warmth;.that.which.is.pro-
duced.by.burning.fuel;.energy.from.
happy the.sun
hard.–.ad..not.easily.cut.or.broken;. heavy.–.ad..having.much.weight;.not.
solid;.difficult.to.do.or.understand;. easy.to.lift;.of.great.amount.or.force
needing.much.effort.or.force
helicopter.–.n..a.machine.without.
harm. –. v.. to. injure;. to. damage;.. wings.that.can.fly.up.or.down.or..
n..damage;.hurt remain.in.one.place.above.the.ground
harvest.–.v..to.gather.crops;.n..the.
crop.after.it.is.gathered
hat.–.n..a.head.cover
helicopter
hate.–.v..to.have.strong.emotions.
against;.to.consider.as.an.enemy;..
opposite.love
38

hair • hospital
help.–.v..to.give.support;.to.assist;.to. home.–.n..the.building.where.a.per-
make.easier;.n..support;.aid son.lives,.especially.with.family;.the.
place.where.one.was.born.or.comes.
here.–.ad..in,.to.or.at.this.place
from;. the. area. or. country. where..
hero.–.n..a.person.honored.for.being. one.lives
brave.or.wise
honest. –. ad.. truthful;. able. to. be.
hide.–.v..to.prevent.from.being.seen. trusted
or.found;.to.make.secret
honor.–.v..to.obey;.to.show.strong,.
high.–.ad..tall;.far.up;.far.above.the. good. feelings. for. (“to honor one’s
ground;.important;.above.others parents”);.n..an.award;.an.act.of.giv-
ing.special.recognition.(“He received
hijack.–.v..to.seize.or.take.control.of.a.
many honors for his efforts to help
vehicle.by.force
others.”)
hill.–.n..a.small.mountain
hope.–.v..to.expect;.to.believe.there.
history. –. n.. the. written. record. or.. is.a.good.chance.that.something.will.
description.of.past.events;.the.study. happen.as.wanted;.to.want.some-
of.the.past thing.to.happen
hit.–.v..to.strike;.to.touch.with.force horrible. –. ad.. causing. great. fear;..
terrible
hold.–.v..to.carry.or.support,.usually..
in.the.hands.or.arms;.to.keep.in.one. horse.–.n..a.large.animal.often.used.
position;.to.keep.as.a.prisoner;.to. for.racing,.riding.or.farm.work
contain;. to. possess;. to. occupy;. to..
hospital.–.n..a.place.where.sick.or..
organize.and.be.involved.in.(“The two
injured.people.are.given.medical.care
sides hold talks this week.”)
hole.–.n..an.opening;.a.torn.or.broken.
place.in.something
holiday.–.n..a.day.when.one.does.
not.work;.a.day.on.which.no.work.is.
done.to.honor.or.remember.a.person.
or.event
holy.–.ad..greatly.honored.in.religion
hospital
learningenglish.voanews.com 39

hostage.–.n..a.person.captured.and. however.–.conj..yet;.but
held.as.a.guarantee.that.a.demand.or.
huge.–.ad..very.big;.of.great.size
promise.will.be.honored
human.–.ad..of.or.about.people
hostile.–.ad..ready.to.fight;.ready..
for.war humor.–.n..the.ability.to.understand,.
enjoy.or.express.what.makes.people.
hot.–.ad..having.or.feeling.great.heat.
laugh
or.a.high.temperature
hunger.–.n..the.need.for.food
hotel.–.n..a.building.with.rooms,.and.
often.food,.for.travelers hunt.–.v..to.search.for.animals.to.
capture.or.kill.them;.to.seek;.to.try..
hour.–.n..a.measure.of.time;.sixty.
to.find
minutes
hurry.–.v..to.do.or.go.fast
house.–.n..a.building.in.which.people.
live;.a.country’s.parliament.or.lawmak- hurt. –. v.. to. cause. pain,. injury. or..
ing.group.(“House of Representatives”) damage
how. –. ad.. in. what. way;. to. what. husband.–.n..a.man.who.is.married
amount
40

I
I.–.pro..the.person.speaking in.–.prep..inside;.held.by;.contained.
by;.surrounded.by;.during
ice.–.n..frozen.water
incident.–.n..an.event.or.something.
idea.–.n..a.thought.or.picture.in.the.
that.happens
mind;.a.belief
incite.–.v..to.urge.or.cause.an.action.
identify.–.v..to.recognize.someone.or.
or.emotion,.usually.something.bad.
something.and.to.say.who.or.what.
or.violent
they.are
include.–.v..to.have;.to.make.a.part.of
if.–.conj..on.condition;.provided.that.
(“I will go if you go.”) increase.–.v..to.make.more.in.size.or.
amount
ignore.–.v..to.pay.no.attention.to..
or.refuse.to.consider.(“The president independent.–.ad..not.influenced.by.
ignored the protesters outside his or.controlled.by.another.or.others;.
office.”) free;.separate
illegal.–.ad..not.legal;.in.violation.of. individual.–.n..one.person
a.law
industry.–.n..any.business.that.pro-
image. –. n.. a. reproduction. of. the.. duces. goods. or. provides. services;.
appearance.of.a.person.or.thing the.work.and.related.activity.in.fac-
tories.and.offices;.all.organizations.
imagine.–.v..to.make.a.picture.in.the.
involved.in.manufacturing
mind;.to.form.an.idea
infect.–.v..to.make.sick.with.some-
immediate.–.ad..without.delay;.very.
thing.that.causes.disease
near.in.time.or.place
inflation. –. n.. a. continuing. rise. in.
immigrant.–.n..a.person.who.arrives.
prices. while. the. value. of. money..
in.a.country.to.live.there
goes.down
import.–.v..to.bring.from.another.
influence.–.v..to.have.an.effect.on.
country;.n..something.brought.from.
someone. or. something;. to. cause.
another.country,.usually.for.sale
change
important.–.ad..having.great.mean-
inform.–.v..to.tell;.to.give.knowledge.to
ing,.value.or.power
information.–.n..knowledge;.facts
improve.–.v..to.make.better;.to.be-
come.better
learningenglish.voanews.com 41

inject.–.v..to.force.a.fluid.into,.such. instrument.–.n..a.tool.or.device.de-
as.putting.medicine.or.drugs.into.the. signed.to.do.something.or.to.make.
body.through.the.skin something
injure.–.v..to.cause.harm.or.damage. insult.–.v..to.say.something.or.to.do.
to.a.person.or.animal something.that.makes.another.per-
son.angry.or.dishonored
innocent.–.ad..not.guilty.of.a.crime;.
not.responsible.for.a.bad.action intelligence.–.n..the.ability.to.think.
or. learn;. information. gathered. by.
insane.–.ad..mentally.sick
spying
insect.–.n..a.very.small.creature,.usu-
intelligent.–.ad..quick.to.understand.
ally.with.many.legs.and.sometimes.
or.learn
with.wings
intense.–.ad..very.strong;.extremely.
serious
insect
interest.–.n..what.is.important.to.
someone.(“He acted to protect his
interests.”.“She had a great interest
in painting.”);.a.share.in.owning.a.
business;.money.paid.for.the.use.of.
money.borrowed
interfere.–.v..to.get.in.the.way.of;.
to.work.against;.to.take.part.in.the..
activities.of.others,.especially.when.
not.asked.to.do.so
inspect. –. v.. to. look. at. something.
carefully;.to.examine,.especially.by. international.–.ad..of.or.about.more.
an.expert than.one.nation.or.many.nations;.of.
the.whole.world
instead.–.ad..in.the.place.of;.taking.
the.place.of
42

inject • it
Internet.–.n..the.extensive.communica- issue.–.n..an.important.problem.or.
tions.system.that.connects.computers. subject.that.people.are.discussing.or.
around.the.world arguing.about
intervene.–.v..to.come.between;.to. it.–.pro..a.thing,.place,.event.or.idea.
come.between.in.order.to.settle.or. that.is.being.spoken.about.(“The sky
solve is blue, but it also has a few white
clouds.”)
invade.–.v..to.enter.an.area.or.coun-
try.by.force.with.an.army
invent.–.v..to.plan.and.make.some-
thing.never.made.before;.to.create.a.
new.thing.or.way.of.doing.something
invest.–.v..to.give.money.to.a.busi-
ness.or.organization.with.the.hope.
of.making.more.money
investigate.–.v..to.study.or.examine.
all.information.about.an.event,.situa-
tion.or.charge;.to.search.for.the.truth
invite.–.v..to.ask.someone.to.take.
part.in.or.join.an.event,.organization.
or.gathering
involve.–.v..to.take.part.in;.to.become.
a.part.of;.to.include
iron.–.n..a.strong,.hard.metal.used.to.
make.machines.and.tools
island.–.n..a.land.area.with.water.all.
around.it
learningenglish.voanews.com 43

JK
jail.–.n..a.prison.for.those.waiting. keep .–..v..to.possess;.to.have.for.
to.be.tried.for.a.crime.or.for.those.. oneself
serving.sentences.for.crimes.that.are.
kick.–.v..to.hit.with.the.foot
not.serious
kidnap.–.v..to.seize.and.take.away.by.
jewel.–.n..a.valuable.stone,.such.as.a.
force
diamond.or.emerald
kill.–.v..to.make.dead;.to.cause.to.die
job.–.n..the.work.that.one.does.to.
earn.money kind.–.n..sort.(“What kind of dog is
that?”);.ad..gentle;.caring;.helpful
join.–.v..to.put.together.or.come..
together;. to. become. part. of. or. a. kiss.–.v..to.touch.with.the.mouth.to.
member.of show.love.or.honor
joint.–.ad..shared.by.two.or.more
joke.–.n..something.done.or.said.to.
cause.others.to.laugh
judge.–.v..to.form.an.opinion.about;. knife
to. decide. a. question,. especially. a..
legal.one;.n..a.public.official.who.. knife.–.n..a.tool.or.weapon.used.to.cut
decides.problems.of.law.in.a.court
know.–.v..to.understand.something.
jump.–.v..to.push.down.on.the.feet. as.correct;.to.have.the.facts.about;.
and.move.up.quickly.into.the.air to.recognize.someone.because.you.
have.met.and.talked.together.before
jury.–.n..a.group.of.people.chosen.to.
decide.what.is.true.in.a.trial knowledge.–.n..that.which.is.known;.
learning.or.understanding
just. –. ad.. only. (“Help me for just
a minute.”);. very. shortly. before. or..
after.the.present.(“He just left.”);.at.
the.same.time.(“He left just as I came
in.”);.what.is.right.or.fair.(“The law is
just, in my opinion.”)
justice.–.n..the.quality.of.being.right,.
fair.or.lawful
44

L
labor.–.n..work;.workers.as.a.group law.–.n..all.or.any.rules.made.by.a.
government
laboratory.–.n..a.room.or.place.where.
experiments.in.science.are.done lead. –. v.. to. show. the. way;. to..
command;.to.control;.to.go.first
lack.–.v..to.be.without;.n..the.condition.
of.needing,.wanting.or.not.having leak.–.v..to.come.out.of.or.to.escape.
|     | through. | a. small. opening. | or. hole. |
| --- | -------- | ------------------ | --------- |
lake.–.n..a.large.area.of.fresh.water.
(usually.a.gas.or.liquid)
surrounded.by.land
learn.–.v..to.get.knowledge.about;.to.
land.–.v..to.come.to.the.earth.from.
come.to.know.a.fact.or.facts
the.air.(“Airplanes land at airports.”);.
n..the.part.of.the.earth.not.covered. leave.–.v..to.go.away.from;.to.let.
| by.water;.the.ground                    | something.stay.where.it.is |               |     |
| --------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------- | --- |
| language.–.n..words.and.their.use;.     | left. –.                   | ad.. on. the. |     |
| what.people.speak.in.a.country,.nation. | side.that.is.toward.       |               |     |
| or.group                                | the.west.when.one.         |               |     |
is.facing.north;.op-
large.–.ad..big;.being.of.more.than.
|     | posite.right |     | left |
| --- | ------------ | --- | ---- |
usual.size,.amount.or.number;.oppo-
| site.small | legal.–.ad..of.or.in.agreement.with. |     |     |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------ | --- | --- |
the.law
laser.–.n..an.instrument.that.makes.a.
| thin,.powerful.light | legislature.–.n..a.government.. |     |     |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------- | --- | --- |
lawmaking.group
last.–.v..to.continue.(“The talks will
last three days.”);.ad..after.all.others;. lend.–.v..to.permit.someone.to.use.a.
the.only.one.remaining.(“She is the  thing.temporarily;.to.make.a.loan.of.
| last person in line.”) | money |     |     |
| ---------------------- | ----- | --- | --- |
late.–.ad..after.the.correct.time;.near. less.–.ad..smaller.in.amount;.not.as.
| the.end;.opposite.early | much |     |     |
| ----------------------- | ---- | --- | --- |
laugh.–.v..to.make.sounds.to.express. let.–.v..to.permit.to.do.or.to.be;.to.
| pleasure.or.happy.feelings | make.possible |     |     |
| -------------------------- | ------------- | --- | --- |
launch.–.v..to.put.into.operation;.to.
begin;.to.send.into.the.air.or.space
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     | 45  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- |

letter. –. n.. a. message. written. on.. lightning. –. n.. light. produced. by..
paper;.a.communication.in.writing. electricity.in.the.air,.usually.during..
sent.to.another.person a.storm
letter
level.–.n..the.amount.or.height.that.
something.reaches.or.rises.to;.the.
position.of.something.or.someone
lightning
liberal. –. ad.. one. who. usually..
like.–.v..to.be.pleased.with;.to.have.
supports.social.progress.or.change
good.feelings.for.someone.or.some-
lie.–.v..to.have.one’s.body.on.the. thing;.ad..in.the.same.way.as;.similar.to
ground.or.other.surface;.to.say.some-
limit.–.v..to.restrict.to.a.number.or.
thing.that.one.knows.is.not.true
amount;.n..the.greatest.amount.or.
life.–.n..the.time.between.being.born. number.permitted
and.dying;.opposite.death;.all.living.
line.–.n..a.long,.thin.mark.on.a.surface;.
things
a.number.of.people.or.things.orga-
lift.–.v..to.take.or.bring.up.to.a.higher. nized;.one.after.another;.the.edge.of.
place.or.level an.area.protected.by.military.forces
light. –. n.. a. form. of. energy. that.. link.–.v..to.connect;.to.unite.one.
affects.the.eyes.so.that.one.is.able. thing. or. event. with. another;..
to.see;.anything.that.produces.light;.. n..a.relation.between.two.or.more.
ad..bright;.clear;.not.heavy things,.situations.or.events
46

letter • luck
liquid.–.n..a.substance.that.is.not.a. look.–.v..to.turn.the.eyes.toward.so.as.
solid.or.gas,.and.can.move.freely,.like. to.see;.to.search.or.hunt.for;.to.seem.
water to.be
list.–.v..to.put.in.writing.a.number.of. lose.–.v..to.have.no.longer;.to.not.
names.of.people.or.things;.n..a.writ- find;.to.fail.to.keep;.to.be.defeated
ten.series.of.names.or.things
loud.–.ad..having.a.strong.sound;.full.
listen.–.v..to.try.to.hear of.sound.or.noise
literature.–.n..all.the.poems,.stories. love.–.v..to.like.very.much;.to.feel..
and.writings.of.a.period.of.time.or.of. a.strong,.kind.emotion.(sometimes.
a.country involving. sex);. n.. a. strong,. kind..
emotion.for.someone.or.something;.
little.–.ad..not.tall.or.big;.a.small.
opposite.hate
amount
low.–.ad..not.high.or.tall;.below.the.
live.–.v..to.have.life;.to.exist;.ad..having.
normal.height;.close.to.the.ground
life;.alive
loyal.–.ad..showing.strong.friendship.
load.–.v..to.put.objects.on.or.into.a.
and.support.for.someone.or.some-
vehicle.or.container;.n..that.which.is.
thing
carried
luck.–.n..something.that.happens..
loan.–.n..money.borrowed.that.usu-
by.chance
ally.must.be.returned.with.interest.
payments;.something.borrowed
local.–.ad..about.or.having.to.do.with.
one.place
lonely.–.ad..feeling.alone
long.–.ad..not.short;.measuring.from.
beginning.to.end;.measuring.much;.
for.much.time
learningenglish.voanews.com 47

M
machine.–.n..a.device.with.moving. many.–.ad..a.large.number.or.amount.
parts.used.to.do.work of
magazine.–.n..a.publication.of.news,. map. –. n.. a. picture. of. the. earth’s..
stories,.pictures.or.other.information surface.or.a.part.of.it
magnet. –. n.. a.
piece. of. iron. or.
other. material.
that.has.a.pulling.
force;. this. pull-
ing.force.is.called.
magnetism magnet
mail.–.n..letters,.papers.and.other.
things.sent.through.an.official.sys- map
tem,.such.as.a.post.office
march.–.v..to.walk.in.a.group.like.
main.–.ad..the.most.important.or. soldiers;.to.walk.together.in.a.large.
largest group.to.protest.about.something
major.–.ad..great.in.size,.importance. mark.–.v..to.make.a.sign.or.cut.on.
or.amount something
majority.–.n..the.greater.number;. market.–.n..a.place.or.area.where.
more.than.half goods.are.sold,.bought.or.traded;.an.
economic.system.in.which.the.prices.
make.–.v..to.produce;.to.create;.to.
of.things.are.decided.by.how.many.
build;.to.do.something.or.to.carry.
there.are.and.how.much.money.peo-
out.an.action;.to.cause.to.be.or.to.
ple.are.willing.to.pay.for.them
become
marry.–.v..to.join.a.man.and.woman..
male.–.n..a.man.or.boy;.the.sex.that.
together. as. husband. and. wife;. to..
is.the.father.of.children;.ad..of.or.
become.husband.and.wife.(usually.in.
about.men
a.religious.or.civil.ceremony)
man.–.n..an.adult.male.human
mass.–.n..an.amount.of.matter.hav-
manufacture.–.v..to.make.goods.in. ing.no.special.form.and.usually.of.a.
large.amounts large.size
48

machine • microscope
mate.–.v..to.bring.together.a.male. medicine.–.n..a.substance.or.drug.
and.a.female.to.create.another.creature used.to.treat.disease.or.pain;.the..
|     |     |     | science. | or. study. of. | treating. and.. |
| --- | --- | --- | -------- | -------------- | --------------- |
material.–.n..the.substance,.substanc-
curing.disease.or.improving.health
| es. or. matter. | of. which. | something. |     |     |     |
| --------------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- |
is.made.or.from.which.something. meet. –. v.. to. come. together. with.
can.be.made,.such.as.wood,.cloth.or. someone.or.something.at.the.same.
| stone;.anything.that.can.be.made. |     |     | time.and.place |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- |
into.something.else
melt.–.v..to.make.a.solid.into.a.liquid.
| mathematics.–.n..the.science.dealing. |     |     | by.heating.it |     |     |
| ------------------------------------- | --- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- |
with.amounts,.sizes.and.shapes,.as.
member.–.n..one.of.a.group
explained.by.numbers.and.signs
memorial.–.n..something.done.or.
| matter. –. | n.. anything. | that. can. be. |           |             |                 |
| ---------- | ------------- | -------------- | --------- | ----------- | --------------- |
|            |               |                | made. to. | honor. the. | memory. of. a.. |
seen.or.felt;.what.things.are.made.of
person.or.event
may.–.v..a.word.used.with.an.action.
memory.–.n..a.picture.in.the.mind.of.
| word. to. | mean. permit. | or. possible. |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------------- | ------------- | --- | --- | --- |
past.events;.the.ability.to.remember;.
(“May I go?”.“They may leave tomor-
a.thing.remembered
row.”)
mental.–.ad..about.or.having.to.do.
mayor.–.n..the.chief.official.of.a.city.
with.the.mind
or.town.government
message.–.n..written.or.spoken.news.
| meal. –. | n.. food. eaten. | to. satisfy.. |                   |          |             |
| -------- | ---------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------- | ----------- |
|          |                  |               | or. information;. | a. note. | from. one.. |
hunger,.such.as.dinner
person.to.another.person.or.group
mean.–.v..to.want.to;.to.give.the.idea.
metal.–.n..a.hard.substance.such.as.
of;.to.have.the.idea.of
iron,.steel.or.gold
measure.–.v..to.learn.the.amount,.
|     |     |     | method. | –. n.. the. way. | something.. |
| --- | --- | --- | ------- | ---------------- | ----------- |
size.or.distance.of.something;.n..an.
is.done
action.taken;.a.legislative.proposal
|     |     |     | microscope. | –. n.. a. |     |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --------- | --- |
meat.–.n..the.part.of.a.dead.animal.
device.used.to.make.
used.for.food
|                                       |            |              | very. small.         | things. |     |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------- | ------------ | -------------------- | ------- | --- |
| media.–.n..all.public.information.or- |            |              | look.larger.so.they. |         |     |
| ganizations,.                         | including. | newspapers,. | can.be.studied       |         |     |
television.and.radio
microscope
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 49  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

middle.–.n..the.center;.a.place.or.time. mineral.–.n..a.substance.found.in..
of.equal.distance.from.both.sides.or. nature.that.is.not.an.animal.or.a.
ends;.ad..in.the.center plant,.such.as.coal.or.salt
minister.–.n..a.member.of.a.cabinet;.
a.high.government.official.(“prime
minister,”.“foreign minister”)
minor.–.ad..small.in.size;.of.little..
importance
minority.–.n..the.smaller.number;.
middle opposite.majority
militant.–.n..someone.active.in.trying.
minute.–.n..a.measure.of.time;.one.of.
to.cause.political.change,.often.by.
the.sixty.equal.parts.of.an.hour;.sixty.
the.use.of.force.or.violence
seconds
military.–.n..the.armed.forces.of.a.
miss.–..v..to.fail.to.hit,.see,.reach.or.
nation.or.group;.ad..of.or.about.the.
meet
armed.forces
missile.–.n..any.weapon.that.can.be.
militia.–.n..an.army.of.citizens.instead.
thrown.or.fired.through.the.air.and.
of. professional. soldiers;. an. armed.
explodes.when.it.reaches.its.target
force.or.private.army
missing.–.ad..lost;.not.found
milk.–.n..the.white.liquid.produced.by.
female.animals.to.feed.their.young mistake.–.n..a.wrong.action.or.de-
cision;.an.action.done.without.the.
mind.–.n..the.thinking,.feeling.part.of.
knowledge.that.it.was.wrong
a.person
mix.–.v..to.put.different.things.to-
mine.–.v..to.dig.useful.or.valuable.
gether.to.make.one.thing
substances. out. of. the. earth;. n.. a.
place.in.the.earth.where.such.sub- mob.–.n..a.large.group.of.wild.or..
stances.are.found;.a.bomb.placed. angry.people
under.the.ground.or.under.water.so.
model.–.n..an.example;.something,.
it.cannot.be.seen
usually. small,. made. to. show. how.
something.will.look.or.work
50

middle • mystery
moderate.–.ad..not.extreme mountain.–.n..a.part.of.the.earth’s.
surface. that. rises. high. above. the.
modern.–.ad..of.the.present.or.very.
area.around.it
recent.time;.the.most.improved
molecule.–.n..the.smallest.amount.of.
a.chemical.substance.that.can.exist mountain
money.–.n..pieces.of.metal.or.paper.
used.to.pay.for.things
money
mourn.–.v..to.express.or.feel.sadness
move.–.v..to.change.position;.to.put.
or.keep.in.motion;.to.go
movement.–.n..the.act.of.moving.or.
month.–.n..one.of.the.twelve.periods.
a.way.of.moving;.a.series.of.acts.or.
of.time.into.which.a.year.is.divided
efforts.to.reach.a.goal
moon.–.n..the.bright.object.often.
movie.–.n..a.motion.picture;.a.film
seen.in.the.night.sky.that.orbits.the.
earth.about.every.twenty-nine.days much.–.ad..great.in.amount
moral.–.ad..concerning.what.is.right. murder.–.v..to.kill.another.person..
or.wrong.in.someone’s.actions illegally;. n.. the. crime. of. killing..
another.person
more.–.ad..greater.in.size.or.amount
music.–.n..the.making.of.sounds.by.
morning.–.n..the.early.part.of.the.day,.
singing.or.using.a.musical.instrument
from.sunrise.until.noon
must.–.v..a.word.used.with.an.action.
most.–.ad..greatest.in.size.or.amount
word.to.mean.necessary.(“You must
mother. –. n.. the. female. parent;. a. go to school.”)
woman.who.has.a.child.or.children
mystery.–.n..something.that.is.not.or.
motion.–.n..a.movement;.a.continuing. cannot.be.explained.or.understood;.
change.of.position.or.place a.secret
learningenglish.voanews.com 51

N
name.–.v..to.appoint;.to.nominate;.to. neither.–.ad..not.one.or.the.other..
give.a.name.to;.n..a.word.by.which. of.two
a.person,.animal.or.thing.is.known..
nerve.–.n..a.thin.piece.of.tissue.that.
or.called
sends.information.through.the.body.
narrow. –. ad.. limited. in. size. or. to.and.from.the.brain
amount;.not.wide;.having.a.short.
neutral.–.ad..not.supporting.one.side.
distance.from.one.side.to.the.other
or.the.other.in.a.dispute
nation.–.n..a.country,.together.with.
never.–.ad..at.no.time;.not.ever
its.social.and.political.systems
new.–.ad..not.existing.before;.not.
native.–.n..someone.who.was.born.in.
known.before;.recently.made,.built,.
a.place,.not.one.who.moved.there
bought.or.grown;.another;.different
natural. –. ad.. of. or. about. nature;..
news.–.n..information.about.any.r.
normal;.common.to.its.kind
ecent.events,.especially.as.reported.
nature.–.n..all.the.plants,.animals. by.the.media
and.other.things.on.earth.not.created.
next.–.ad..coming.immediately.after;.
by.humans;.events.or.processes.not.
nearest
caused.by.humans
nice.–.ad..pleasing;.good;.kind
navy. –. n.. the. part. of. a. country’s..
military.force.trained.to.fight.at.sea night.–.n..the.time.between.when.
the.sun.goes.down.and.when.it.rises,.
near.–.ad..not.far;.close.to
when.there.is.little.or.no.light
necessary.–.ad..needed.to.get.a.result.
or.effect;.required
need.–.v..to.require;.to.want;.to.be.
necessary.to.have.or.to.do
negotiate. –. v.. to. talk. about. a..
problem.or.situation.to.find.a.com-
mon.solution
neighbor.–.n..a.person.or.country.
that.is.next.to.or.near.another
night
52

name • number
no.–.ad..used.to.reject.or.to.refuse;. nucleic  acid. –. n.. a. molecule. that.
| not.any;.not.at.all |     |     | holds.the.genetic.information.nec- |     |     |
| ------------------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------- | --- | --- |
essary.for.life;.there.are.two.kinds.of.
noise.–.n..sound,.especially.when.loud
nucleic.acid;.DNA.(deoxyribonucleic.
nominate.–.v..to.name.someone.as.a. acid).and.RNA.(ribonucleic.acid)
candidate.for.an.election;.to.propose.
nucleus.–.n..the.center.part.of.an.
a.person.for.an.office.or.position
atom.or.cell
| noon. –. | n.. the. middle. | of. the. day;. |     |     |     |
| -------- | ---------------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- |
nutrient.–.n..a.food.or.substance.that.
twelve.o’clock.in.the.daytime
|         |                    |             | makes. plants,. | humans. | or. animals. |
| ------- | ------------------ | ----------- | --------------- | ------- | ------------ |
| normal. | –. n.. the. usual. | condition,. | grow            |         |              |
amount.or.form;.ad..usual;.what.is.
number.–.n..a.word.or.sign.used.to.
expected
show.the.order.or.amount.of.things
north.–.n..the.direction.to.the.left.of.
a.person.facing.the.rising.sun
not.–.ad..a.word.showing.that.some-
| thing. is. | denied. or. | untrue. (“She  is   |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | ------------------- | --- | --- | --- |
not going.”)
note.–.v..to.talk.about.something.
already.known;.n..a.word.or.words.
written.to.help.a.person.remember;.
| a.short.letter |     |     |     | number |     |
| -------------- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | --- |
nothing.–.n..not.anything;.no.thing
now.–.ad..at.this.time;.immediately
nowhere.–.ad..not.in,.to.or.at.any.place
| nuclear. | –. ad.. of. | or. about. the.. |     |     |     |
| -------- | ----------- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- |
energy.produced.by.splitting.atoms.
| or. bringing. | them. | together;. of. or. |     |     |     |
| ------------- | ----- | ------------------ | --- | --- | --- |
about.weapons.that.explode.by.us-
ing.energy.from.atoms
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 53  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

O
obey.–.v..to.act.as.one.is.ordered.to.act offer.–.v..to.present.or.propose;.n..the.
act.of.presenting.or.proposing;.that.
object.–.v..to.show.that.one.does.not.
which.is.presented.or.proposed
like.or.approve;.to.protest;.n..some-
thing.not.alive.that.can.be.seen.or. office.–.n..a.room.or.building.where.
touched business.or.work.is.done;.a.public.
position.to.which.one.is.elected.or.
observe.–.v..to.watch;.to.look.at.care-
appointed
fully;.to.celebrate.or.honor.something.
(“They will observe the anniversary of officer.–.n..a.person.in.the.military.
the day she was born.”) who.commands.others;.any.person.
who.is.a.member.of.a.police.force
occupy.–.v..to.take.and.hold.or.to..
control.by.force official.–.n..a.person.with.power.in.an.
organization;.a.representative.of.an.
ocean.–.n..the.area.of.salt.water.that.
organization.or.government;.ad..of.
covers. almost. seventy-five. percent.
or.about.an.office;.approved.by.the.
of.the.earth’s.surface;.any.of.the.five.
government.or.someone.in.power
main.divisions.of.this.water
often.–.ad..many.times
oil.–.n..a.thick.liquid.that.does.not.
mix.with.water.and.that.burns.easily;.
a.black.liquid.taken.from.the.ground.
and.used.as.fuel
old.–.ad..not.young.or.new;.having.
lived.or.existed.for.many.years
ocean
on.–.prep..above.and.held.up.by;.
of.–.prep..made.from;.belonging.to;.. touching.the.upper.surface.of.(“The
about;.connected.to;.included.among book is on the table.”);.supported.by.
(“He is on his feet.”);.about.(“The re-
off.–.ad..away;.at.a.distance;.condi-
port on the meeting is ready.”);.at.the.
tion.when.something.is.no.longer.
time.of.(“He left on Wednesday.”)
operating.or.continuing;.not.on;.not.
connected once.–.ad..one.time.only
offensive.–.n..a.military.campaign.of. only.–.ad..being.the.single.one.or.
attack;.ad..having.to.do.with.attacking ones;.no.more.than.(“We have only
two dollars.”)
54

obey • own
open. –. v.. to. start. (“They opened organ.–.n..a.part.of.the.body.that.has.
talks.”);.ad..not.closed;.not.secret a.special.purpose,.such.as.the.heart.
or.brain
operate.–.v..to.do.work.or.a.job;.to.
cut.into.the.body.for.medical.reasons organism.–.n..a.living.thing,.often.so.
small.it.can.be.seen.only.through.a.
opinion.–.n..a.belief.based.on.one’s.
microscope
own.ideas.and.thinking
organize.–.v..to.put.in.order;.to.put.
oppose.–.v..to.be.against;.to.fight.
together.into.a.system
against
other.–.ad..different;.of.another.kind;.
opposite.–.ad..different.as.possible;.
the.remaining.one.or.ones.of.two.or.
completely. different. from;. exactly.
more.(“That man is short; the other
the.other.way.(“North is the opposite
is tall.”)
direction from south.”)
our.–.ad..of.or.belonging.to.us
oppress.–.v..to.make.others.suffer;.to.
control.by.the.use.of.unjust.and.cruel. oust.–.v..to.force.to.leave;.to.remove.
force.or.power by.force
or.–.conj..giving.another.of.two.choices;. out. –. ad.. away. from. the. inside;..
giving.the.last.of.several.choices opposite.of.in
orbit.–.v..to.travel.in.space.around.a. over.–.conj..above;.covering;.across,.
planet.or.other.object;.n..the.path.or. in.or.on.every.part.of.(“all over the
way.an.object.travels.in.space.around. world”)
another.object.or.planet
overthrow.–.v..to.remove.from.power;.
to.defeat.or.end.by.force
orbit
owe.–.v..to.pay.or.have.to.repay.(usu-
ally.money).in.return.for.something.
received
own.–.v..to.have.or.possess.for.oneself
order.–.v..to.give.a.command;.to.tell.
someone.what.to.do;.n..a.command;.
the.correct.or.normal.way.things.are.
organized;. a. peaceful. situation. in.
which.people.obey.laws
learningenglish.voanews.com 55

P
pain.–.n..a.hurt.or.suffering.some- part.–.n..something.less.than.the.
where.in.the.body whole;.not.all.of.something
paint.–.v..to.cover.with.a.liquid.color;. particle.–.n..a.very.small.piece.of.matter
to.make.a.picture.with.liquid.colors;.
partner.–.n..a.person.who.takes.part.
n..a.colored.liquid.used.to.cover.or.
in.some.activity.in.common.with.an-
protect.a.surface
other.or.others..(“The two men were
paper.–.n..a.thin,.flat.material.made. business partners.”)
from.plants.or.cloth.often.used.for.
party.–.n..a.group.of.people.working.
writing
together.for.a.political.purpose;.a.
parachute.–.n..a.device.that.permits.a. group.of.people.or.friends.gathered.
person.or.thing.to.fall.slowly.from.an. together.for.enjoyment
airplane.or.helicopter.to.the.ground
pass.–.v..to.go.by.or.move.around.
something;.to.move.along;.to.cause.
or.permit.to.go
passenger.–.n..a.person.traveling.by.
airplane,.train,.boat.or.car.who.is.not.
the.pilot.or.driver
parachute
parade.–.n..a.group.of.people.and..
vehicles.moving.together.to.celebrate..
passport
a.special.event.or.anniversary
pardon.–.v..to.forgive.for.a.crime.and.
release.from.punishment
passport.–.n..an.official.government.
parent.–.n..a.father.or.mother document. that. shows. a. person’s.
identity.and.citizenship.and.permits.
parliament.–.n..a.government.law-
a.citizen.to.travel.to.another.country
making.group
past.–.n..the.time.gone.by;.the.time.
before;.ad..recent;.immediately.be-
fore;.former
56

pain • planet
path.–.n..a.narrow.way.for.walking;. physical.–.ad..of.the.body
a.way.along.which.something.moves
|                                         |     |     | physics.          | –. n.. the. study. | of. motion,. |
| --------------------------------------- | --- | --- | ----------------- | ------------------ | ------------ |
| patient.–.n..a.person.being.treated.by. |     |     | matter.and.energy |                    |              |
a.doctor.for.a.health.problem
picture.–.n..something.that.shows.
pay.–.v..to.give.money.for.work.done. what. another. thing. looks. like;. an.
| or.for.something.bought |     |     | idea.or.representation.of.something. |     |     |
| ----------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- | --- |
as.seen.by.the.eye;.a.painting;.what.
peace.–.n..the.condition.of.freedom.
is.made.with.a.camera
from.war,.fighting.or.noise;.rest;.quiet
piece.–.n..a.part.of.something.larger
people.–.n..any.group.of.persons;.all.
the.persons.of.a.group,.race,.religion. pig.–.n..a.farm.animal.used.for.its.
| or.nation.(“the American people”) |     |     | meat |     |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --- |
percent.–.n..a.part.of.every.hundred. pilot.–.n..one.who.guides.or.flies.an.
(“Ten is ten percent of one hundred.”) airplane.or.helicopter
perfect.–.ad..complete.or.correct.in. pipe.–.n..a.long,.round.piece.of.mate-
every.way;.completely.right.or.good;. rial.used.to.move.liquid.or.gas
without.mistakes
place.–.v..to.put.something.some-
perform.–.v..to.speak,.dance.or.sing. where;.n..an.area.or.a.part.of.an.area;.
| in.front.of.others |     |     | space.where.a.person.or.thing.is;.any. |     |     |
| ------------------ | --- | --- | -------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
room,.building,.town.or.country
period.–.n..an.amount.of.time.within.
events,.restrictions.or.conditions plan.–.v..to.organize.or.develop.an.
idea.or.method.of.acting.or.doing.
| permanent. | –. ad.. never. | changing;. |            |               |               |
| ---------- | -------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------- | ------------- |
|            |                |            | something. | (“They  plan  | to  have  a   |
lasting.for.a.very.long.time.or.for..
party.”);.n..an.organized.or.developed.
all.time
idea.or.method.(“The plan will not
| permit.–.v..to.let;.to.make.possible |     |     | work.”) |     |     |
| ------------------------------------ | --- | --- | ------- | --- | --- |
person.–.n..a.man,.woman.or.child planet.–.n..a.large.object.in.space.that.
orbits.the.sun.(“Earth is a planet.”)
persuade.–.v..to.cause.someone.to.do.
something.by.explaining.or.urging.
(“The police persuaded the criminal to
surrender his weapon.”)
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 57  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

plant.–.v..to.put.into.the.ground.to. poison. –. n.. a. substance. that. can..
grow;.n..a.living.growth.from.the. destroy.life.or.damage.health
ground.which.gets.its.food.from.air,.
police.–.n..a.government.agency.re-
water.and.earth
sponsible. for. guarding. the. public,.
keeping.order,.and.making.sure.peo-
ple.obey.the.law;.members.of.that.
agency
policy.–.n..an.established.set.of.plans.
or.goals.used.to.develop.and.make.
plant
decisions. in. politics,. economics. or.
business
politics.–.n..the.activities.of.govern-
ment.and.of.those.who.are.in.public.
plastic.–.n..a.material.made.from. office
chemicals.that.can.be.formed.and.
pollute.–.v..to.release.dangerous.or.
made.into.things
unpleasant.substances.into.the.air,.
play.–.v..to.have.fun;.to.not.work;.to. soil.or.water
take.part.in.a.sport;.to.make.music.
poor.–.n..people.with.little.or.no.
on.an.instrument;.n..a.story.acted.in.
money;.ad..lacking.money.or.goods;.
a.theater
of.bad.quality
please.–.v..to.make.one.happy;.to.
popular.–.ad..liked.by.many.people;.
give.enjoyment
generally.approved.by.the.public
plenty.–.n..all.that.is.needed;.a.large.
population.–.n..all.the.people.in.a.
enough.amount
place,.city.or.country
plot.–.v..to.make.secret.plans;.n..a..
port.–.n..a.city.where.ships.load.or.
secret.plan.to.do.something.wrong.
unload. goods;. a. place. on. a. coast.
or.illegal
where.ships.can.be.safe.from.a.storm
poem.–.n..words.and.their.sounds.
position.–.n..a.place;.the.way.of.hold-
organized.in.a.special.way.to.express.
ing.the.body;.the.way.a.thing.is.set.or.
emotions
placed;.a.job.(or.level.of.a.job).in.an.
point.–.v..to.aim.one’s.finger.toward;. organization
to.aim;.n..the.sharp.end.of.something
58

plant • probably
possess.–.v..to.have;.to.own;.to.control. president.–.n..the.chief.official.of.a.
| or.be.controlled.by |     |     | country.that.is.a.republic;.the.leader. |     |     |
| ------------------- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
of.an.organization
possible.–.ad..able.to.be.done;.can.
happen.or.is.expected.to.happen press. –. v.. to. urge. strongly;..
n..newspapers,.magazines.and.other.
postpone.–.v..to.delay.action.until.a.
publications
later.time
|     |     |     | pressure. | –. n.. the. force. | produced. |
| --- | --- | --- | --------- | ------------------ | --------- |
pour.–.v..to.flow;.to.cause.to.flow
when.something.is.pushed.down.or.
| poverty.–.n..the.condition.of.being. |     |     | against.something.else |     |     |
| ------------------------------------ | --- | --- | ---------------------- | --- | --- |
poor
prevent.–.v..to.keep.or.stop.from..
| power.–.n..the.ability.to.control.or.di- |     |     | going.or.happening |     |     |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- |
rect.others;.control;.strength;.ruling.
price.–.n..the.amount.of.money.for.
force;.force.or.energy.used.to.do.work.
|     |     |     | which. anything. | is. bought,. | sold. or.. |
| --- | --- | --- | ---------------- | ------------ | ---------- |
(“Water power turns the wheel.”)
offered.for.sale
praise.–.v..to.say.good.things.about;.
prison.–.n..a.place.where.a.person.is.
to.approve
kept.as.punishment.for.a.crime
pray.–.v..to.make.a.request.to.a.god.
private.–.ad..of.or.about.a.person.or.
or.spirit;.to.praise.a.god.or.spirit
group.that.is.secret;.opposite.public
predict.–.v..to.say.what.one.believes.
prize.–.n..something.offered.or.won.
| will. happen. | in. the. | future.. (“The  |     |     |     |
| ------------- | -------- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- |
in.a.competition;.something.of.value.
| weather  | scientist  predicted  | a  cold  |     |     |     |
| -------- | --------------------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- |
that.one.must.work.hard.for
winter.”)
pregnant.–.ad..carrying.a.child.within.
the.body.before.it.is.born;.expecting.
to.give.birth.to.a.baby
present.–.v..to.offer.for.consideration.
(“We will present our idea to the com-
mittee.”);.n..a.gift.(“I gave them a
| present  | for  their  anniversary.”);. | ad.. |     |     |     |
| -------- | ---------------------------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
prize
| now. (“The  | present  time  | is  a  good  |     |     |     |
| ----------- | -------------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- |
time.”);.ad..to.be.at.a.place.(“I was  probably.–.ad..a.good.chance.of.tak-
present at school yesterday.”) ing.place;.a.little.more.than.possible
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 59  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

problem.–.n..a.difficult.question.or. propose.–.v..to.present.or.offer.for.
situation.with.an.unknown.or.un- consideration
clear.answer
protect. –. v.. to. guard;. to. defend;..
process.–.n..an.operation.or.series.of. to. prevent. from. being. harmed. or.
changes.leading.to.a.desired.result damaged
produce. –. v.. to. make;. to. create;.. proteins.–.n..substances.responsible.
to.cause.something.to.be;.to.manu- for.the.growth.of.tissue.and.for.fix-
facture ing.damaged.tissue
profession.–.n..a.job.that.requires. protest.–.v..to.speak.against;.to.object
special.training
prove.–.v..to.show.to.be.true
professor.–.n..a.teacher.at.a.college.
provide.–.v..to.give.something.needed.
or.university
or.wanted
profit.–.n..money.gained.from.a.busi-
public.–.ad..of.or.about.all.the.people.
ness.activity.after.paying.all.costs.of.
in.a.community.or.country;.opposite.
that.activity
private
program.–.n..a.plan.of.action;.the..
publication.–.n..something.that.is.
different.events.or.parts.of.a.meeting.
published.such.as.a.book,.newspaper.
or.show
or.magazine
progress.–.n..movement.forward.or. publication
toward.improvement.or.a.goal
project.–.n..a.planned.effort.to.do.
something
promise.–.v..to.say.one.will.do.some-
thing;.n..a.spoken.or.written.agree-
ment.to.do.something
publish.–.v..to.make.public.something.
propaganda.–.n..ideas.or.information. that.is.written;.to.include.something.
used.to.influence.opinions in.a.book,.newspaper.or.magazine
property. –. n.. anything. owned. by. pull.–.v..to.use.force.to.move.some-
someone.such.as.land,.buildings.or. thing. toward. the. person. or. thing..
goods using.the.force;.opposite.push
60

Q
pump.–.v..to.force.a.gas.or.liquid.up,. quality.–.n..that.which.something.
into.or.through is.known.to.have.or.be.(“An import-
ant quality of steel is its strength.”);.
punish.–.v..to.cause.pain,.suffering.
amount.of.value.or.excellence.(“Their
or.loss.for.doing.something.bad.or.
goods are of the highest quality.”)
illegal
question. –. v.. to. ask;. to. express..
purchase. –. v.. to. buy. with. money.
wonder.or.disbelief;.n..a.sentence.or.
or.with.something.of.equal.value;..
word.used.in.asking.for.information;.
n..that.which.is.bought
a.problem;.an.issue.to.be.discussed
pure.–.ad..free.from.anything.that.is.
quick.–.ad..fast
different.or.that.reduces.value;.clean
quiet.–.ad..with.little.or.no.noise;.
purpose.–.n..the.reason.or.desired..
having.little.or.no.movement;.calm
effect.for.doing.something;.goal
push.–.v..to.use.force.to.move.some-
thing.away.from.the.person.or.thing.
using.the.force;.opposite.pull
push
put.–.v..to.place;.to.set.in.position
learningenglish.voanews.com 61

R
race.–.v..to.run;.to.take.part.in.a.com- rain.–.n..water.falling.from.the.sky
petition.to.decide.who.or.what.can.
raise.–.v..to.lift.up;.to.move.to.a.
move.fastest;.to.take.part.in.a.cam-
higher.position;.to.cause.to.grow;.to..
paign.for.political.office;.n..one.of.the.
increase
major.groups.that.humans.can.be.
divided.into.because.of.a.common. rape.–.v..to.carry.out.a.sexual.attack.
physical.similarity,.such.as.skin.color by.force.against.a.person
radar.–.n..a.device.that.uses.radio.. rare.–.ad..not.common;.not.usual;.
signals.to.learn.the.position.or.speed. not.often
of.objects.that.may.be.too.far.away.
rate.–.n..speed;.a.measure.of.how.
to.be.seen
quickly. or. how. often. something..
radiation.–.n..waves.of.energy.from. happens;.the.price.of.any.thing.or.
something. that. produces. heat. or. service.that.is.bought.or.sold
light;. energy. from. a. nuclear. sub-
reach.–.v..to.put.a.hand.toward;.to.
stance,.which.can.be.dangerous
arrive.at;.to.come.to
radio.–.n..the.system.of.sending.and.
react.–.v..to.act.as.a.result.of.or.in..
receiving.signals.or.sounds.through.
answer.to
the.air.without.wires
read.–.v..to.look.at.and.understand.
raid.–.v..to.make.a.sudden.attack;..
the. meaning. of. written. words. or.
n..a.sudden.attack.carried.out.as.an.
numbers
act.of.war,.or.for.the.purpose.of.seiz-
ing.or.stealing.something ready. –. ad.. prepared;. completed;..
organized;.willing
railroad.–.n..a.road.for.trains;.a.com-
pany.that.operates.such.a.road.and. real.–.ad..true;.truly.existing;.not.false
its.stations.and.equipment
realistic.–.ad..in.agreement.with.the.
way.things.are
reason.–.n..the.cause.for.a.belief.or.act;.
purpose;.something.that.explains
reasonable.–.ad..ready.to.listen.to.
reasons.or.ideas;.not.extreme;.ready.
or.willing.to.compromise
railroad
62

race • remains
rebel.–.v..to.act.against.a.govern- reduce.–.v..to.make.less.or.smaller.in.
ment.or.power,.often.with.force;.to. number,.size.or.amount;.to.cut
refuse.to.obey;.n..one.who.opposes.
reform.–.v..to.make.better.by.chang-
or.fights.against.the.government.of.
ing;.to.improve;.n..a.change.to.a..
his.or.her.country
better.condition
receive.–.v..to.get.or.accept.some-
refugee.–.n..a.person.who.has.been.
thing.given,.offered.or.sent
forced. to. flee. because. of. unjust.
recent.–.ad..a.short.time.ago treatment,.danger.or.war
recession.–.n..a.temporary.reduction. refuse.–.v..to.reject;.to.not.accept,.
in.economic.activity,.when.industries. give.or.do.something
produce.less.and.many.workers.lose.
register. –. v.. to. have. one’s. name..
their.jobs
officially.placed.on.a.list.of.people.
recognize.–.v..to.know.or.remember. permitted.to.vote.in.an.election.or.
something. or. someone. that. was. take.part.in.an.educational.program
known,.known.about.or.seen.before;.
regret.–.n..a.feeling.of.sadness.or..
to.accept.another.nation.as.indepen-
sorrow.about.something.that.is.done.
dent. and. establish. diplomatic. ties.
or.that.happens
with.its.government
reject.–.v..to.refuse.to.accept,.use..
record. –. v.. to. write. something. in..
or.believe
order.to.have.it.for.future.use;.to.put.
sound.or.pictures.in.a.form.that.can. relations.–.n..understandings.or.ties.
be.kept.and.heard.or.seen.again;.n.. between.nations;.members.of.the.
a.writing.that.shows.proof.or.facts. same. family;. people. connected. by.
about.something marriage.or.family.ties
recover.–.v..to.get.again.something. release.–.v..to.free;.to.permit.to.go;.to.
that.was.lost,.stolen.or.taken.away. permit.to.be.known.or.made.public
(“The police recovered the stolen
religion.–.n..a.belief.in,.or.the.honoring.
money.”);.to.return.to.normal.health.
of,.a.god.or.gods
or.normal.conditions.(“She is expected
to recover from the operation.”) remain.–.v..to.stay.in.a.place.after.
others.leave;.to.stay.the.same
red.–.ad..having.the.color.like.that..
of.blood remains.–.n..a.dead.body
learningenglish.voanews.com 63

remember.–.v..to.think.about.the. research. –. n.. a. careful. study. to..
past;.opposite.forget discover.correct.information
remove.–.v..to.take.away.or.take.off;. resign.–.v..to.leave.a.position,.job..
to.put.an.end.to;.to.take.out.of.a.. or.office
position.or.office
resist.–.v..to.oppose;.to.fight.to.prevent
repair.–.n..work.done.to.fix.something
resolution.–.n..an.official.statement.
repeat.–.v..to.say.or.do.again of.agreement.by.a.group.of.people,.
usually.reached.by.voting
report.–.v..to.tell.about;.to.give.the.
results.of.a.study.or.investigation;.. resource.–.n..anything.of.value.that.
n..the.story.about.an.event;.the.re- can.be.used.or.sold
sults.of.a.study.or.investigation;.a.
respect.–.v..to.feel.or.show.honor.to.
statement.in.which.the.facts.may.
a.person.or.thing.(“All citizens should
not.be.confirmed
respect the law.”)
responsible.–.ad..having.a.duty.or.
job.to.do.(“He is responsible for pre-
paring the report.”);.being.the.cause..
of. (“They were responsible for the
accident.”)
rest.–.v..to.sit,.lie.down.or.sleep.to.re-
gain.strength;.n..that.which.remains;.
report
the.others
represent.–.v..to.act.in.the.place.of.
restaurant.–.n..a.place.where.people.
someone.else;.to.substitute.for;.to.
can.buy.and.eat.meals
serve.as.an.example
restrain.–.v..to.keep.controlled;.to.
repress.–.v..to.control.or.to.restrict.
limit.action.by.a.person.or.group
freedoms.by.force
restrict.–.v..to.limit;.to.prevent.from.
request.–.v..to.ask.for;.n..the.act.of.
increasing.or.becoming.larger
asking.for
result.–.v..to.happen.from.a.cause;.n..
require.–.v..to.need.or.demand.as.
that.which.follows.or.is.produced.by.
necessary
a.cause;.effect
rescue.–.v..to.free.from.danger.or.evil
64

remember • room
retire.–.v..to.leave.a.job.or.position. road.–.n..a.long.piece.of.hard.ground.
because.one.is.old.or.in.poor.health built.between.two.places.so.people.
can.walk,.drive.or.ride.easily.from.
return.–.v..to.go.or.come.back;.to.
one.place.to.the.other
bring,.give,.take.or.send.back
revolt.–.v..to.protest.violently;.to.fight.
for.a.change,.especially.of.government
rice.–.n..a.food.grain
rich. –. ad.. having. much. money. or.
goods;.having.plenty.of.something
ride.–.v..to.sit.on.or.in.and.be.carried.
along;.to.travel.by.animal,.wheeled.
vehicle,.airplane.or.boat road
right.–.n..what.a.person.legally.and.
rob.–.v..to.take.money.or.property..
morally.should.be.able.to.do.or.have.
secretly.or.by.force;.to.steal
(“It is their right to vote.”);.ad..agree-
ing. with. the. facts;. good;. correct;. robot.–.n..a.machine.that.moves.and.
opposite.wrong;.on.the.side.that.is. performs.work
toward.the.east.when.one.is.facing.
rock.–.n..a.hard.piece.of.mineral.matter
north;.opposite.left
rocket.–.n..a.device.shaped.like.a.
riot.–.v..to.act.with.many.others.in.a.
tube.that.moves.through.air.or.space.
violent.way.in.a.public.place;.n..a.vio-
by.burning.gases.and.letting.them..
lent.action.by.a.large.group.of.people
escape. from. the. back. or. bottom,.
rise.–.v..to.go.up;.to.go.higher;.to.. sometimes.used.as.a.weapon
increase;.to.go.from.a.position.of.sit-
roll.–.v..to.turn.over.and.over;.to.
ting.or.lying.to.a.position.of.standing
move.like.a.ball
risk.–.n..the.chance.of.loss,.damage.
room.–.n..a.separate.area.within.a.
or.injury
building.with.its.own.walls
river.–.n..a.large.amount.of.water.
that.flows.across.land.into.another.
river,.a.lake.or.an.ocean
learningenglish.voanews.com 65

root.–.n..the.part.of.a.plant.that.is. rubber.–.n..a.substance.made.from.
under.the.ground.and.takes.nutri- the. liquid. of. trees. with. the. same.
ents.from.the.soil name,.or.a.similar.substance.made.
from.chemicals
ruin.–.v..to.damage.severely;.to.destroy
rule.–.v..to.govern.or.control;.to.decide;.
n..a.statement.or.an.order.that.says.
how.something.must.be.done
run.–.v..to.move.quickly.by.steps..
faster.than.those.used.for.walking
root
rope.–.n..a.long,.thick.piece.of.mate-
rial.made.from.thinner.pieces.of.ma-
terial,.used.for.tying
run
rough.–.ad..not.flat.or.smooth;.hav-
ing.an.uneven.surface;.violent;.not. rural. –. ad.. describing. areas. away.
made.well from.cities.which.may.include.farms,.
small.towns.and.unpopulated.areas.
round.–.ad..having.the.shape.of.a.ball.
or.circle
rub.–.v..to.move.something.over.the.
surface.of.another.thing
66

S
sabotage.–.v..to.damage.or.destroy. satisfy.–.v..to.give.or.provide.what.is.
as.an.act.against.an.organization.or. desired,.needed.or.demanded
nation
save.–.v..to.make.safe;.to.remove.
sacrifice.–.v..to.do.without.some- from.harm;.to.keep.for.future.use
thing.or.to.suffer.a.loss.for.a.belief,.
say.–.v..to.speak;.to.express.in.words
idea,.goal.or.another.person
school.–.n..a.place.for.education;.a.
sad.–.ad..not.happy
place.where.people.go.to.learn
safe.–.ad..away.from.harm.or.danger
science.–.n..the.study.of.nature.and.
sail.–.v..to.travel.by.boat.or.ship the.actions.of.natural.things,.and.the.
knowledge.gained.about.them
sea.–.n..a.large.area.of.salt.water,.
usually.part.of.an.ocean
sail
search.–.v..to.look.for.carefully
season.–.n..one.of.the.four.periods.of.
the.year.that.is.based.on.the.earth’s.
position. toward. the. sun. (spring,.
summer,.autumn,.winter);.a.period.
sailor.–.n..a.person.involved.in.sailing. of.time.based.on.different.weather.
a.boat.or.ship conditions.(“dry season”,.“rainy sea-
son”);.a.period.during.the.year.when.
salt.–.n..a.white.substance.found.in.
something.usually.happens.(“base-
sea.water.and.in.the.ground,.used.to.
ball season”)
affect.the.taste.of.food
same. –. ad.. not. different;. not.
changed;.like.another.or.others
sand.–.n..extremely.small.pieces.of.
crushed.rock.found.in.large.amounts.
in.deserts.and.on.coasts
satellite.–.n..a.small.object.in.space.
that.moves.around.a.larger.object;.
an. object. placed. in. orbit. around..
the.earth
seasons
learningenglish.voanews.com 67

seat.–.n..a.thing.to.sit.on;.a.place.to. self.–.n..all.that.which.makes.one.
sit.or.the.right.to.sit.there.(“a seat in person.different.from.others
parliament”)
sell.–.v..to.give.something.in.exchange.
second.–.ad..the.one.that.comes.after. for.money
the.first
Senate.–.n..the.smaller.of.the.two.
secret.–.n..something.known.only.to. groups.in.the.governments.of.some.
a.few.and.kept.from.general.knowl- countries,. such. as. in. the. United.
edge;.ad..hidden.from.others;.known. States.Congress
only.to.a.few
send.–.v..to.cause.to.go;.to.permit.to.
security.–.n..freedom.from.danger.or. go;.to.cause.to.be.carried,.taken.or..
harm;.protection;.measures.necessary. directed.to.or.away.from.a.place
to.protect.a.person.or.place.(“Security
sense.–.v..to.come.to.know.about.by.
was increased in the city.”)
feeling,.believing.or.understanding;.
see.–.v..to.know.or.sense.through.the. n..any.of.the.abilities.to.see,.hear,.
eyes;.to.understand.or.know taste,.smell.or.feel
sentence.–.v..to.declare.the.punish-
ment.for.a.crime;.n..the.punishment.
for.a.crime
separate.–.v..to.set.or.keep.people,.
see
things.or.ideas.away.from.or.indepen-
seed.–.n..the.part.of.a.plant.from.
dent.from.others;.ad..not.together.or.
which.new.plants.grow
connected;.different
seek(ing).–.v..to.search.for.(“They are
series.–.n..a.number.of.similar.things.
seeking a cure for cancer.”);.to.try.to.
or.events.that.follow.one.after.another.
get.(“She is seeking election to public
in.time,.position.or.order
office.”);.to.plan.to.do.(“Electric power
companies are seeking to reduce their serious. –. ad.. important;. needing.
use of coal.”) careful.consideration;.dangerous
seem.–.v..to.appear.to.be.(“She seems serve.–.v..to.work.as.an.official;.to.
to be in good health.”) be.employed.by.the.government;.to..
assist.or.help
seize.–.v..to.take.quickly.by.force;.to.
take.control.of.quickly;.to.arrest
68

seat • shoe
service. –. n.. an. organization. or.. sharp.–.ad..having.a.thin.edge.or.
system.that.provides.something.for. small. point. that. can. cut. or. hurt;.
the. public. (“Schools and roads are causing.hurt.or.pain
services paid for by taxes.”);.a.job.that.
she.–.pro..the.girl.or.woman.who.is.
an.organization.or.business.can.do.
being.spoken.about
for. money;. military. organizations.
such.as.an.army,.navy.or.air.force;.a. sheep.–.n..a.farm.animal.used.for.its.
religious.ceremony meat.and.hair
set.–.v..to.put.in.place.or.position;.to. shell.–.v..to.fire.artillery;.n..a.metal.
establish.a.time,.price.or.limit container.that.is.fired.from.a.large.
gun.and.explodes.when.it.reaches.its.
settle.–.v..to.end.(a.dispute);.to.agree.
target;.a.hard.outside.cover
about.(a.problem);.to.make.a.home.
in.a.new.place shelter.–.v..to.protect.or.give.protec-
tion.to;.n..something.that.gives.pro-
several.–.ad..three.or.more,.but.not.
tection;.a.place.of.safety
many
shine. –. v.. to. aim. a. light;. to. give.
severe. –. ad.. not. gentle;. causing.
bright.light;.to.be.bright;.to.clean.to..
much.pain,.sadness.or.damage
make.bright
sex.–.n..either.the.male.or.the.female.
ship.–.v..to.transport;.n..a.large.boat
group.into.which.all.people.and.an-
imals.are.divided.because.of.their..
actions. in. producing. young;. the.
physical.activity.by.which.humans.
and.animals.can.produce.young.
shake.–.v..to.move.or.cause.to.move.
in.short,.quick.movements
ship
shape.–.v..to.give.form.to;.n..the.form.
of.something,.especially.how.it.looks shock.–.v..to.cause.to.feel.sudden.
surprise.or.fear;.n..something.that.
share.–.v..to.give.part.of.something.
greatly.affects.the.mind.or.emotions;.
to.another.or.others;.n..a.part.be-
a.powerful.shake,.as.from.an.earth-
longing.to,.given.to.or.owned.by.a.
quake
single.person.or.a.group;.any.one.
of.the.equal.parts.of.ownership.of.a. shoe.–.n..a.covering.for.the.foot
business.or.company
learningenglish.voanews.com 69

shoot.–.v..to.cause.a.gun.or.other. sickness.–.n..the.condition.of.being.in.
weapon.to.send.out.an.object.de- bad.health
signed.to.kill;.to.use.a.gun
side.–.n..the.outer.surfaces.of.an.ob-
short.–.ad..lasting.only.for.a.small. ject.that.are.not.the.top.or.bottom;.
period.of.time;.not.long;.opposite.tall parts.away.from.the.middle;.either.
the.right.or.left.half.of.the.body
should.–.v..used.with.another.verb.
(action.word).to.show.responsibility.. sign.–.v..to.write.one’s.name;.n..a.mark.
(“We should study.”),.probability.(“The or.shape.used.to.mean.something;.
talks should begin soon.”),. or. that. evidence. that. something. exists. or.
something.is.believed.to.be.a.good.. will.happen;.a.flat.piece.of.material.
idea.(“Criminals should be punished.”) with.writing.that.gives.information
shout.–.v..to.speak.very.loudly signal. –. v.. to. send. a. message. by.
signs;.n..an.action.or.movement.that.
show.–.v..to.make.something.be.seen;.
sends.a.message
to.make.known;.n..a.play.or.story..
presented.in.a.theater,.or.broadcast. silence.–.v..to.make.quiet;.to.stop.
on.radio.or.television,.for.enjoyment. from.speaking.or.making.noise;.n..a.
or.education;.something.organized. lack.of.noise.or.sound
to.be.seen.by.the.public
silver.–.n..a.valued.white.metal
similar.–.ad..like.something.else.but.
not.exactly.the.same
simple.–.ad..easy.to.understand.or.
do;.not.difficult.or.complex
show
since.–.prep..from.a.time.in.the.past.
until.now.(“I have known her since we
went to school together.”)
sing.–.v..to.make.music.sounds.with.
shrink.–.v..to.make.or.become.less.in. the.voice
size,.weight.or.value
single.–.ad..one.only
sick. –. ad.. suffering. physically. or..
sink.–.v..to.go.down.into.water.or.
mentally. with. a. disease. or. other.
other.liquid
problem;.not.in.good.health
70

shoot • social
sister.–.n..a.female.with.the.same.. slow.–. v..to.reduce.the.speed.of;..
father.or.mother.as.another.person ad..not.fast.in.moving,.talking.or.oth-
er.activities
sit.–.v..to.rest.on.the.lower.part.of.
the.body.without.the.support.of.the. small.–.ad..little.in.size.or.amount;.
| legs;.to.become.seated |     |     | few.in.number;.not.important;.oppo- |     |     |
| ---------------------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- | --- | --- |
site.large
| situation. | –. n.. the. | way. things. are. |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ----------- | ----------------- | --- | --- | --- |
during.a.period.of.time smash.–.v..to.break.or.be.broken.into.
small.pieces.by.force;.to.hit.or.move.
| size. –. | n.. the. space. | occupied. by.. |     |     |     |
| -------- | --------------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- |
with.force
something;.how.long,.wide.or.high.
| something.is |     |     | smell.–.v..to.sense.through.the.nose;. |         |                |
| ------------ | --- | --- | -------------------------------------- | ------- | -------------- |
|              |     |     | n.. something.                         | sensed. | by. the. nose. |
skeleton.–.n..all.the.bones.of.a.human..
(“the smell of food cooking”)
| or. other.       | animal. together. | in. their.. |                                        |     |     |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ----------- | -------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| normal.positions |                   |             | smoke.–.v..to.use.cigarettes.or.other. |     |     |
tobacco.products.by.burning.them.
and.breathing.in.the.smoke;.n..that.
which.can.be.seen.rising.into.the.air.
like.a.cloud.from.something.burning
smooth.–.ad..having.a.level.surface;.
opposite.rough
skeleton
snow.–.n..soft,.white.pieces.of.frozen.
skill.–.n..the.ability.gained.from.train-
water.that.fall.from.the.sky,.usually.
ing.or.experience
in.winter.or.when.the.air.tempera-
| skin.–.n..the.outer.covering.of.humans. |     |     | ture.is.very.cold |     |     |
| --------------------------------------- | --- | --- | ----------------- | --- | --- |
and.most.animals
so.–.ad..in.such.a.way.that.(“He held
sky.–.n..the.space.above.the.earth the flag so all could see it.”);.also;.too.
(“She left early, and so did we.”);.very.
slave.–.n..a.person.owned.or.con-
(“I am so sick.”);.as.a.result.(“They were
trolled.by.another
sick, so they could not come.”);.conj..in.
sleep.–.v..to.rest.the.body.and.mind. order.that;.for.the.purpose.of.(“Come
| with.the.eyes.closed |     |     | early so we can discuss the plans.”) |     |     |
| -------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------ | --- | --- |
slide.–.v..to.move.smoothly.over.a. social.–.ad..of.or.about.people.or.a.
| surface                     |     |     | group |     |     |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | --- |
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |       |     | 71  |

soft.–.ad..not.hard;.easily.shaped;. speak.–.v..to.talk;.to.say.words.with.
pleasing.to.touch;.not.loud the.mouth;.to.express.one’s.thoughts.
to.others.and.exchange.ideas;.to.give.
soil.–.n..earth.in.which.plants.grow
a.speech.to.a.group
soldier.–.n..a.person.in.the.army
solid.–.ad..having.a.hard.shape.with.
no.empty.spaces.inside;.strong;.not.
in.the.form.of.a.liquid.or.gas
solve.–.v..to.find.an.answer;.to.settle
speak
some.–.ad..of.an.amount.or.number.
or.part.not.stated;.not.all
special.–.ad..of.a.different.or.unusual.
son.–.n..a.person’s.male.child
kind;.not.for.general.use;.better.or.
soon.–.ad..not.long.after.the.present. more.important.than.others.of.the.
time;.quickly same.kind
sort. –. n.. any. group. of. people. or. speech.–.n..a.talk.given.to.a.group..
things.that.are.the.same.or.are.similar. of.people
in.some.way;.a.kind.of.something
speed.–.v..to.make.something.go.
sound. –. n.. fast–moving. waves. of.. or.move.faster;.n..the.rate.at.which.
energy.that.affect.the.ear.and.result. something. moves. or. travels;. the..
in.hearing;.that.which.is.heard rate.at.which.something.happens.or.
is.done
south.–.n..the.direction.to.the.right.of.
a.person.facing.the.rising.sun spend.–.v..to.give.as.payment;.to.use.
(“He spends much time studying.”)
space. –. n.. the. area. outside. the.
earth’s.atmosphere.where.the.sun,. spill.–.v..to.cause.or.permit.liquid.to.
moon,.planets.and.stars.are;.the.area. flow.out,.usually.by.accident
between.or.inside.things
spirit.–.n..the.part.of.a.human.that.
is.not.physical.and.is.connected.to.
thoughts.and.emotions;.the.part.of.
a.person.that.is.believed.to.remain.
space
alive.after.death
72

soft • step
split.–.v..to.separate.into.two.or.more. station.–.n..a.place.of.special.work..
parts;.to.divide.or.break.into.parts or. purpose. (“a police station”);. a.
place.where.passengers.get.on.or.off.
sport.–.n..any.game.or.activity.of.
trains.or.buses;.a.place.for.radio.or.
competition.involving.physical.effort.
television.broadcasts
or.skill
statue.–.n..a.form.of.a.human,.animal.
spread.–.v..to.become.longer.or.wider;.
or. other. creature. usually. made. of.
to.make.or.become.widely.known
stone,.wood.or.metal
spring. –. n.. the. time. of. the. year..
stay.–.v..to.continue.to.be.where.one.
between.winter.and.summer
is;.to.remain;.to.not.leave;.to.live.for.
spy.–.v..to.steal.or.get.information. a.time.(“They stayed in New York for
secretly;.n..one.who.watches.others. two years.”)
secretly;.a.person.employed.by.a.gov-
steal.–.v..to.take.without.permission.
ernment.to.get.secret.information.
or.paying
about.another.country
steam.–.n..the.gas.that.comes.from.
square.–.n..a.flat.shape.having.four.
hot.water
equal.sides
stab.–.v..to.cut.or.push.into.or.through.
with.a.pointed.weapon
stand.–.v..to.move.into.or.be.in.a.po-
sition.in.which.only.the.feet.are.on.a.
surface;.to.be.in.one.position.or.place
star.–.n..a.mass.of.gas.that.usually. steam
appears.as.a.small.light.in.the.sky.at.
night,.but.is.not.a.planet;.a.famous.
person,.usually.an.actor.or.singer
steel.–.n..iron.made.harder.and.stronger.
start.–.v..to.begin;.to.make.some- by.mixing.it.with.other.substances
thing.begin
step.–.v..to.move.by.lifting.one.foot.
starve.–.v..to.suffer.or.die.from.a.lack. and. placing. it. in. a. new. position;..
of.food n..the.act.of.stepping;.one.of.a.series.
of.actions.designed.to.reach.a.goal
state.–.v..to.say;.to.declare;.n..a.political.
part.of.a.nation
learningenglish.voanews.com 73

stick.–.v..to.attach.something.to.an- stretch.–.v..to.extend.for.a.distance;.
other.thing.using.a.substance.that.will. to.pull.on.to.make.longer.or.wider
hold.them.together;.to.become.fixed.
strike.–.v..to.hit.with.force;.to.stop.
in.one.position.so.that.movement.is.
work.as.a.way.to.seek.better.con-
difficult. (“Something is making the
ditions,.more.pay.or.to.make.other..
door stick.”);.n..a.thin.piece.of.wood
demands
still.–.ad..not.moving.(“The man was
strong.–.ad..having.much.power;.not.
standing still.”);.until.the.present.or.
easily.broken,.damaged.or.destroyed
a.stated.time.(“Was he still there?”);.
even. so;. although. (“The job was structure.–.n..the.way.something.is.
difficult, but she still wanted to do it.”) built,.made.or.organized;.a.system.
that.is.formed.or.organized.in.a.spe-
stone.–.n..a.small.piece.of.rock
cial.way;.a.building
stop.–.v..to.prevent.any.more.move-
struggle.–.v..to.try.with.much.effort;.
ment.or.action;.to.come.or.bring.to.
to.fight.with;.n..a.great.effort;.a.fight
an.end
study.–.v..to.make.an.effort.to.gain.
store.–.v..to.keep.or.put.away.for..
knowledge. by. using. the. mind;. to..
future.use;.n..a.place.where.people.
examine.carefully
buy.things
stupid.–.ad..not.able.to.learn.much;.
storm.–.n..violent.weather,.including.
not.intelligent
strong.winds.and.rain.or.snow
subject.–.n..the.person.or.thing.being.
story.–.n..the.telling.or.writing.of.an.
discussed,.studied.or.written.about
event,.either.real.or.imagined
submarine.–.n..an.underwater.ship
stove. –. n.. a. heating. device. used..
for.cooking
straight.–.ad..continuing.in.one.direc-
tion.without.turns
strange.–.ad..unusual;.not.normal;.
not.known
street. –. n.. a. road. in. a. city,. town..
or.village
submarine
74

stick • suffer
substance.–.n..the.material.of.which. supply.–.v..to.give;.to.provide;.n..the.
something.is.made.(a.solid,.liquid.. amount.of.something.that.can.be.
or.gas) given.or.sold.to.others
substitute.–.v..to.put.or.use.in.place. support.–.v..to.carry.the.weight.of;.to.
of.another;.n..a.person.or.thing.put. hold.up.or.in.position;.to.agree.with.
or.used.in.place.of.another others.and.help.them.reach.a.goal;..
to.approve
subversion.–.n..an.attempt.to.weak-
en.or.destroy.a.political.system.or. suppose.–.v..to.believe,.think.or.imag-
government,.usually.secretly ine.(“I suppose you are right.”);.to.ex-
pect.(“It is supposed to rain tonight.”)
succeed.–.v..to.reach.a.goal.or.thing.
desired;.to.produce.a.planned.result suppress.–.v..to.put.down.or.to.keep.
down.by.force;.to.prevent.information.
such.–.ad..of.this.or.that.kind;.of.the.
from.being.known.publicly
same.kind.as;.similar.to
sure.–.ad..very.probable;.with.good.rea-
sudden.–.ad..not.expected;.without.
son.to.believe;.true.without.question
warning;.done.or.carried.out.quickly.
or.without.preparation surface.–.n..the.outer.side.or.top.of.
something.(“The rocket landed on the
suffer.–.v..to.feel.pain.in.the.body.or.
surface of the moon.”)
mind;.to.receive.or.experience.hurt.
or.sadness surplus.–.n..an.amount.that.is.more.
than.is.needed;.extra;.(“That country
sugar.–.n..a.sweet.substance.made.
has a trade surplus. It exports more
from.liquids.taken.from.plants
than it imports.”)
suggest.–.v..to.offer.or.propose.some-
surprise.–.v..to.cause.a.feeling.of.
thing.to.think.about.or.consider
wonder. because. something. is. not.
suicide.–.n..the.act.of.killing.oneself expected;.n..something.not.expected;..
the. feeling. caused. by. something..
summer.–.n..the.warmest.time.of.the.
not.expected
year,.between.spring.and.autumn
suffer.–.v..to.give.control.of.oneself.or.
sun.–.n..the.huge.star.in.the.sky.that.
one’s.property.to.another.or.others;.
provides.heat.and.light.to.earth
to.stop.fighting.and.admit.defeat
supervise.–.v..to.direct.and.observe.
the.work.of.others
learningenglish.voanews.com 75

surround.–.v..to.form.a.circle.around;. sweet.–.ad..tasting.pleasant,.like.sugar
to.be.in.positions.all.around.some-
swim.–.v..to.move.through.water.by.
one.or.something
making.motions.with.the.arms.and.
survive.–.v..to.remain.alive.during.or. legs
after.a.dangerous.situation
sympathy.–.n..a.sharing.of.feelings.or.
suspect.–.v..to.imagine.or.believe. emotions.with.another.person,.usu-
that.a.person.is.guilty.of.something. ally.feelings.of.sadness
bad.or.illegal;.n..a.person.believed.to.
system.–.n..a.method.of.organizing.
be.guilty
or. doing. something. by. following.
suspend.–.v..to.cause.to.stop.for.a.. rules.or.a.plan;.a.group.of.connected.
period.of.time things.or.parts.working.together.for.
a.common.purpose.or.goal
swallow.–.v..to.take.into.the.stomach.
through.the.mouth
swear in.–.v..to.put.an.official.into.
office.by.having.him.or.her.promise.
to.carry.out.the.duties.of.that.office.
(“The chief justice will swear in the
president.”)
76

T
take.–.v..to.put.a.hand.or.hands. of.or.about.a.very.special.kind.of.
around.something.and.hold.it,.often. subject.or.thing.(“You need technical
to.move.it.to.another.place;.to.carry. knowledge  to understand how  this
| something;.to.seize;.to.capture;.to. |     |     | system works.”) |     |     |
| ------------------------------------ | --- | --- | --------------- | --- | --- |
begin.to.be.in.control.(“The president
technology.–.n..the.use.of.scientific.
takes office tomorrow.”)
knowledge.and.methods.to.produce.
| talk.–.v..to.express.thoughts.in.spoken. |     |     | goods.and.services |     |     |
| ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- |
words;.n..a.meeting.for.discussion
telephone.–.n..a.device.or.system.for.
tall.–.ad..higher.than.others;.oppo- sending.sounds,.especially.the.voice,.
| site.short |     |     | over.distances |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | --- | -------------- | --- | --- |
tank.–.n..a.large.container.for.hold- telescope.–.n..a.device.for.making.ob-
ing.liquids;.a.heavy.military.vehicle.. jects.that.are.far.away.appear.closer.
| with.guns  |                  |             | and.larger |     |     |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | --- |
| target. –. | n.. any. person. | or. object. |            |     |     |
aimed.at.or.fired.at
taste.–.v..to.sense.through.the.mouth.
(“The fruit tastes sweet.”)
tax.–.n..the.money.a.person.or.busi-
ness.must.pay.to.the.government.so.
telescope
the.government.can.provide.services
tea.–.n..a.drink.made.from.the.plant.
television.–.n..a.device.that.receives.
of.the.same.name
electronic.signals.and.makes.them.
teach.–.v..to.show.how.to.do.some- into.pictures.and.sounds;.the.system.
thing;. to. provide. knowledge;. to. of.sending.pictures.and.sounds.by.
| cause.to.understand |     |     | electronic.signals.over.a.distance.so. |     |     |
| ------------------- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
others.can.see.and.hear.them.on.a.
team.–.n..a.group.organized.for.some.
receiver
purpose,.often.for.sports
tell.–.v..to.give.information;.to.make.
tear.–.v..to.pull.apart,.often.by.force
|                                      |     |     | known.  | by. speaking;. | to. order;. to.. |
| ------------------------------------ | --- | --- | ------- | -------------- | ---------------- |
| technical.–.ad..involving.machines,. |     |     | command |                |                  |
processes.and.materials.in.industry,..
temperature.–.n..the.measurement.
transportation.and.communications;..
of.heat.and.cold
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     |     | 77  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

temporary.– ad..lasting.only.a.short. than.–.conj..connecting.word.used.to.
time link.things.that.may.be.similar,.but.
are.not.equal.(“My sister is taller than
tense.–.ad..having.fear.or.concern;.
I am.”)
dangerous;.opposite.calm
thank.–.v..to.say.that.one.has.a.good.
term.–.n..a.limited.period.of.time.
feeling.toward.another.because.that.
during. which. someone. does. a. job.
person.did.something.kind.(“I want
or.carries.out.a.responsibility.(“He
to thank you for helping me.”)
served two terms in Congress.”);.the.
conditions.of.an.agreement.that.have. that.–.ad..showing.the.person,.place.
been.accepted.by.those.involved.in.it or.thing.being.spoken.about.(“That
man is a soldier.”);.pro..the.person,.
terrible.–.ad..very.bad;.causing.terror.
place.or.thing.being.spoken.about.
or.fear
(“The building that I saw was very
territory.–.n..a.large.area.of.land large.”)
terror.–.n..extreme.fear;.that.which. the.–.pro..used.in.front.of.a.name.
causes.great.fear word.to.show.that.it.is.a.person.or.
thing.that.is.known.about.or.is.being.
terrorist.–.n..a.person.who.carries.out.
spoken.about
acts.of.extreme.violence.as.a.protest.
or.a.way.to.influence.a.government theater.–.n..a.place.where.movies.are.
shown.or.plays.are.performed
test.–.v..to.attempt.to.learn.or.prove.
what.something.is.like.or.how.it.will. them.–.pro..other.people.being.spo-
act.by.studying.or.doing.(“The scien- ken.about
tists will test the new engine soon.”);.
then. –. ad.. at. that. time;. existing;..
n..an.attempt.to.learn.or.prove.what.
and.so
something.is.like.or.how.it.will.act.by..
studying.or.doing.(“The test of the new theory.–.n..a.possible.explanation.of.
engine takes place today.”);.a.group. why.something.exists.or.how.some-
of.questions.or.problems.used.to.find. thing.happens.using.experiments.or.
out.a.person’s.knowledge.(“The stu- ideas,.but.which.is.not.yet.proven.
dents did well on the language test.”) (“Other scientists are debating his
theory about the disappearance of
dinosaurs.”)
78

temporary • too
there.–.ad..in.that.place.or.position;. throw.–.v..to.cause.to.go.through.the.
to.or.toward.that.place air.by.a.movement.of.the.arm
these.–.pro..of.or.about.the.people,. tie.–.v..to.join.or.hold.together.with.
places. or. things. nearby. that. have. some.material;.n..anything.that.joins.
been.spoken.about.already or.unites;.links.or.connections.(“The
two nations have strong trade ties.”)
they.–.pro..those.ones.being.spoken.
about time.–.n..that.which.is.measured.in.
minutes,. hours,. days. and. years;. a..
thick.–.ad..having.a.large.distance.
period.that.can.be.identified.in.hours.
between.two.opposite.surfaces.(“The
and.minutes.and.is.shown.on.a.clock;.
wall is two meters thick.”);. having.
a.period.when.an.event.should.or.will.
many.parts.close.together.(“The for-
take.place
est is very thick.”);.almost.solid,.such.
as.a.liquid.that.does.not.flow.easily;. tired. –. ad.. having. less. strength..
opposite.thin because.of.work.or.exercise;.needing.
sleep.or.rest
thin.–.ad..having.a.small.distance.
between.two.opposite.surfaces;.not. tissue.–.n..living.material;.a.group.of.
fat;.not.wide;.opposite.thick cells.that.are.similar.in.appearance.
and.do.the.same.thing
thing.–.n..any.object
to.–.prep..showing.the.direction.of.an.
think.–.v..to.produce.thoughts;.to.
action;.showing.the.person.or.place.
form.ideas.in.the.mind;.to.consider;.
toward.which.an.action.is.directed;.
to.believe
showing.a.goal.or.purpose
third.–.ad..coming.after.two.others
today.–.n..this.day
this.–.pro..of.or.about.the.person,.
together.–.ad..in.one.group;.at.the.
place.or.thing.nearby.that.has.been.
same.time.or.place;.in.cooperation
spoken.about.already
tomorrow.–.n..the.day.after.today
threaten.–.v..to.warn.that.one.will.do.
harm.or.cause.damage tonight.–.n..this.night
through.–.prep..in.at.one.end.and.out. too.–.ad..also;.as.well.as;.more.than.
at.the.other;.from.front.to.back;.from. is.necessary
top.to.bottom;.with.the.help.of;.by
learningenglish.voanews.com 79

tool.–.n..any.instrument.or.device.. traffic.–.n..the.movement.of.people,.
designed.to.help.one.do.work vehicles.or.ships.along.a.street,.road.
or.waterway
tragic.–.ad..extremely.sad;.terrible
train.–.v..to.teach.or.learn.how.to.do.
something;.to.prepare.for.an.activity;.
n..an.engine.and.the.cars.connected.
to.it.that.move.along.a.railroad
tool
transport. –. v.. to. move. goods. or..
top.–.n..the.upper.edge.or.surface;. people.from.one.place.to.another
the.highest.part;.the.cover.of.some-
transportation.–.n..the.act.or.business.
thing
of.moving.goods.or.people
torture. –. v.. to. cause. severe. pain;..
trap.–.v..to.catch.or.be.caught.by..
n..the.act.of.causing.severe.pain.in.
being.tricked;.to.be.unable.to.move.
order.to.harm,.to.punish.or.to.get.in-
or.escape;.n..a.device.used.to.catch.
formation.from
animals
total.–.n..the.complete.amount
travel.–.v..to.go.from.one.place.to..
touch.–.v..to.put.the.hand.or.fingers.on another,.usually.for.a.long.distance
toward.–.prep..in.the.direction.of;. treason. –. n.. the. act. of. fighting.
leading.to against.one’s.own.country.or.of.help-
ing.its.enemies
town.–.n..a.center.where.people.live,.
larger.than.a.village.but.not.as.large. treasure. –. n.. a. large. collection. of.
as.a.city money,. jewels. or. other. things. of.
great.value
trade.–.v..to.buy.and.sell.or.exchange.
products.or.services;.n..the.activity.of. treat.–.v..to.deal.with;.to.act.toward.
buying,.selling.or.exchanging.prod- in.a.special.way;.to.try.to.cure
ucts.or.services
treatment.–.n..the.act.of.treating;.
tradition.–.n..a.ceremony,.activity.or. the.use.of.medicine.to.try.to.cure.or.
belief.that.has.existed.for.a.long.time make.better
treaty. –. n.. a. written. agreement..
between.two.or.more.nations
80

tool • turn
tree.–.n..a.very.tall.plant.that.is.mostly. true.–.ad..correct;.not.false
wood,.except.for.its.leaves
trust.–.v..to.believe.that.someone.is.
trial.–.n..an.examination.in.a.court. honest.and.will.not.cause.harm
of.a.question.or.dispute.to.decide.if.
try.–.v..to.make.an.effort;.to.take.
a.charge.is.true
court.action.against.a.person.to.de-
tribe.–.n..a.group.of.families.ruled.by. cide.if.he.or.she.is.guilty.or.innocent.
a.common.chief.or.leader of.a.crime
trick.–.v..to.cheat;.to.fool.a.person.so. tube. –. n.. a. long,. round. structure.
as.to.get.something.or.make.him.or. through.which.liquids.or.gases.can.
her.do.something flow;.a.long,.thin.container.in.which.
they.can.be.kept
trip.–.n..a.movement.from.one.place.
to.another,.usually.a.long.distance turn.–.v..to.change.direction;.to.move.
into.a.different.position;.to.change.
troops.–.n..a.number.of.soldiers.in.a.
color,.form.or.shape
large.controlled.group
trouble.–.n..that.which.causes.concern,.
fear,.difficulty.or.problems
truce.–.n..a.temporary.halt.in.fighting.
agreed.to.by.all.sides.involved
truck.–.n..a.heavy.vehicle.used.to..
carry.goods
truck
learningenglish.voanews.com 81

U
under.–.prep..below;.below.the.sur- up.–.ad..to,.in.or.at.a.higher.position.
face.of;.less.than;.as.called.for.by.a. or.value
law,.agreement.or.system.(“The river
urge.–.v..to.advise.strongly;.to.make.
flows under the bridge.”.“Such action
a.great.effort.to.get.someone.to.do.
is not permitted under the law.”)
something
understand. –. v.. to. know. what. is.
urgent.–.ad..needing.an.immediate.
meant;.to.have.knowledge.of
decision.or.action
unite.–.v..to.join.together
us.–.pro..the.form.of.the.word.“we”.
universe.–.n..all.of.space,.including. used. after. a. preposition. (“He said
planets.and.stars he would write to us.”).or.used.as.an.
object.of.a.verb.(“They saw us yester-
university.–.n..a.place.of.education.
day.”)
that.usually.includes.several.colleges.
and.research.organizations use.–.v..to.employ.for.a.purpose;.to.
put.into.action
unless.–.conj..except.if.it.happens;.on.
condition.that.(“I will not go, unless usual.–.ad..as.is.normal.or.common;.
the rain stops.”) as.is.most.often.done,.seen.or.heard
until.–.conj..up.to.a.time;.before
82

V
vacation.–.n..a.holiday;.a.period.of.time. video.–.n..a.method.of.recording.im-
for.travel,.pleasure.or.rest,.especially. ages.and.sound.without.a.traditional.
one.with.pay.given.to.an.employee film.camera.to.be.shown.on.a.televi-
sion,.computer.or.other.device
vaccine.–.n..a.substance.containing.
killed.or.weakened.organisms.given.. village.–.n..a.very.small.town
to. a. person. or. animal. to. produce..
violate.–.v..to.fail.to.obey.or.honor;.to.
protection.against.a.disease
break.(an.agreement)
valley.–.n..a.long.area.of.land.between.
violence.–.n..the.use.of.force.to.cause.
higher.areas.of.land
injury,.death.or.damage
value.–.n..the.quality.of.being.useful,.
virus.–.n..a.kind.of.organism.that.
important. or. desired;. the. amount.
causes.disease
of.money.that.could.be.received.if.
something.is.sold visa.–.n..the.official.permission.given.
to.a.person.to.enter.a.country.where.
vegetable.–.n..a.plant.grown.for.food
he.or.she.is.not.a.citizen
vehicle.–.n..anything.on.or.in.which.
visit.–.v..to.go.to.or.come.to.a.place.for.
a.person.or.thing.can.travel.or.be.
a.short.time.for.friendly.or.business.
transported,.especially.anything.on.
reasons
wheels;.a.car.or.truck
voice.–.n..the.sound.made.by.creatures,.
version.–.n..the.form.of.something.
especially.humans,.for.speaking
with.different.details.than.earlier.or.
later.forms volcano. –. n.. a. hill. or. mountain.
around. a. hole. in. the. earth’s. sur-
very.–.ad..extremely.(“He was very
face.that.can.explode,.sending.hot,..
late.”)
melted.rock.and.ash.into.the.air
veto.–.v..to.reject.or.refuse.to.approve
volunteer.–.n..a.person.who.choos-
victim.–.n..someone.or.something. es.to.do.something.without.being.
that.is.injured,.killed.or.made.to.suffer;. asked,.usually.without.being.paid
someone.who.is.tricked
vote.–.v..to.choose.a.candidate.in.an.
victory.–.n..a.success.in.a.fight.or. election;.n..a.choice.or.decision.ex-
competition pressed.by.the.voice,.by.hand.or.by.
writing
learningenglish.voanews.com 83

W
wages.–.n..money.received.for.work. watch. –. v.. to. look. at;. to. observe.
done closely;.to.look.and.wait.for
wait.–.v..to.delay.acting;.to.postpone water.–.n..the.liquid.that.falls.from.
the.sky.as.rain.or.is.found.in.lakes,..
walk.–.v..to.move.by.putting.one.foot.
rivers.and.oceans
in.front.of.the.other.wall.–.n..the.
side.of.a.room.or.building.formed. wave.–.v..to.move.or.cause.to.move.
by.wood,.stone.or.other.material;.a. one.way.and.the.other,.as.a.flag.in.the.
structure.sometimes.used.to.sepa- wind;.to.signal.by.moving.the.hand.
rate.areas.of.land one.way.and.the.other;.n..a.large.
mass.of.water.that.forms.and.moves.
on.the.surface.of.a.lake.or.ocean
way.–.n..a.path.on.land.or.sea.or.
wall
in.the.air;.how.something.is.done;.
method
we.–.pro..two.or.more.people,.includ-
want.–.v..to.desire;.to.wish.for;.to.need
ing.the.speaker.or.writer.(“He and I
war.–.n..fighting.between.nations,.or. will go together, and we will return
groups.in.a.nation,.using.weapons together.”)
warm.–.ad..almost.hot;.having.or. weak.–.ad..having.little.power;.easily.
feeling.some.heat broken,.damaged.or.destroyed;.op-
posite.strong
warn.–.v..to.tell.of.possible.danger;.
to.advise.or.inform.about.something. wealth.–.n..a.large.amount.of.pos-
bad.that.may.happen sessions,. money. or. other. things..
of.value
wash.–.v..to.make.clean,.usually.with.
water weapon.–.n..anything.used.to.cause.
injury.or.to.kill.during.an.attack,.fight.
waste.–.v..to.spend.or.use.without.
or.war
need.or.care;.to.make.bad.use.of;.n..
a.spending.of.money,.time.or.effort. wear.–.v..to.have.on.the.body,.as.clothes
with.no.value.gained.or.returned;.
weather.–.n..the.condition.of.the..
something.thrown.away.as.having.
atmosphere. resulting. from. sun,.
no.value;.the.liquid.and.solid.sub-
wind,.rain,.heat.or.cold
stances.that.result.from.body.pro-
cesses.and.are.passed.out.of.the.body
84

wages • white
Web site.–.n..a.collection.of.informa- wheel.–.n..a.round.structure.that.
turns.around.a.center
tion.prepared.by.a.person.or.organi-
zation.on.the.World.Wide.Web.of.the.
Internet
week.–.n..a.period.of.time.equal.to.
wheel
seven.days
| weigh. | –. v.. |     |     |     |     |
| ------ | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
to. measure.
how. heavy.
| someone. | or. |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
when.–.ad..at.what.time;.at.any.time.
| something.is |     |     | (“When will she come home?”);.conj..    |     |     |
| ------------ | --- | --- | --------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| welcome.     | –.  |     | during.or.at.the.time.(“I studied hard  |     |     |
when I was in school.”)
v..to.express.
happiness.
where.–.ad., conj..at,.to.or.in.what.
| or. pleasure. |     |     | place. (“Where  | is  his  | house?”. “The  |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --------------- | -------- | -------------- |
weigh
| when.some- |     |     | house where he lives is in the old part  |     |     |
| ---------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
one.arrives.or.something.develops
of the city.”)
well.–.ad..in.a.way.that.is.good.or. whether.–.conj..if.it.be.the.case.or.
pleasing;.in.good.health;.n..a.hole.in.
fact.that.(“He did not know whether
| the.ground.where.water,.gas.or.oil. |     |     | he was right or wrong.”) |     |     |
| ----------------------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | --- |
can.be.found
which.–.pro..used.to.ask.about.what.
west.–.n..the.direction.in.which.the. one.or.what.ones.of.a.group.of.things.
sun.goes.down
or.people.(“Which program do you
like best?”.“Which students will take
wet.–.ad..covered.with.water.or.other.
the test?”)
liquid;.not.dry
while.–.n..a.space.of.time.(“Please
what.–.pro..used.to.ask.about.some-
|     |     |     | come  to  | my  house  | for  a  while.”);.. |
| --- | --- | --- | --------- | ---------- | ------------------- |
thing.or.to.ask.for.information.about.
|            |         |                    | conj.. at. | or. during. the. | same. time.. |
| ---------- | ------- | ------------------ | ---------- | ---------------- | ------------ |
| something. | (“What  | is  this?”);. ad.. |            |                  |              |
(“It may not be a good idea to eat
which.or.which.kind.(“He wants to
know what you would like to drink.”) while you are running.”)
white.–.ad..having.the.color.like.that.
| wheat.                              | –. n.. a. grain. | used. to. make. |                 |     |     |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------------- | --------------- | --------------- | --- | --- |
| bread;.the.plant.that.produces.the. |                  |                 | of.milk.or.snow |     |     |
grain
learningenglish.voanews.com 85

who.–.pro..what.or.which.person.or. window.–.n..an.opening.in.a.wall..
persons.that.(“Who wants to go?”);. to.let.in.light.and.air,.usually.filled.
the.person.or.persons.(“They are the with.glass
ones who want to go.”)
whole.–.ad..the.complete.amount;.
all.together;.not.divided;.not.cut.into.
window
pieces
why.–.ad..for.what.cause.or.reason.
(“Why did she do it?”);.conj..the.rea-
son.for.which.(“I do not know why
winter.–.n..the.coldest.time.of.year,.
she did it.”)
between.autumn.and.spring
wide.–.ad..having.a.great.distance.
wire.–.n..a.long,.thin.piece.of.metal.
from.one.side.to.the.other;.not.limited
used.to.hang.objects.or.to.carry.elec-
wife.–.n..a.woman.who.is.married tricity.or.electronic.communications.
from.one.place.to.another
wild. –. ad.. living. and. growing. in..
natural.conditions.and.not.organized. wise.–.ad..having.much.knowledge.
or. supervised. by. humans;. angry;.. and. understanding;. able. to. use.
uncontrolled knowledge. and. understanding. to.
make.good.or.correct.decisions
will.–.v..a.word.used.with.action.
words.to.show.future.action.(“They wish.–.v..to.want;.to.express.a.desire.
will hold talks tomorrow.”) for
willing.–.ad..being.ready.or.having. with.–.prep..along.or.by.the.side.of;.
a.desire.to.(“They are willing to talk together;.using.(“He fixed it with a
about the problem.”) tool.”);.having.(“the house with the
red door”)
win.–.v..to.gain.a.victory;.to.defeat.
another.or.others.in.a.competition,. withdraw.–.v..to.take.or.move.out,.
election.or.battle away.or.back;.to.remove
wind.–.n..a.strong.movement.of.air without.–.prep..with.no;.not.having.
or.using;.free.from;.not.doing
86

who • wrong
witness.–.n..a.person.who.saw.and. wound.–.v..to.injure;.to.hurt;.to.cause.
can.tell.about.an.action.or.event,. physical.damage.to.a.person.or.ani-
sometimes.in.a.court.of.law mal;.n..an.injury.to.the.body.of.a.hu-
man.or.animal.in.which.the.skin.is.
woman.–.n..an.adult.female.human
usually.cut.or.broken
wonder.–.v..to.ask.oneself;.to.ques-
wreck. –. v.. to. damage. greatly;. to..
tion.(“She wonders if it is true.”);.n..a.
destroy;.n..anything.that.has.been.
feeling.of.surprise
badly.damaged.or.broken
wonderful. –. ad.. causing. wonder;..
wreckage.–.n..what.remains.of.some-
especially.good
thing.severely.damaged.or.destroyed
wood.–.n..the.solid.material.of.which.
write.–.v..to.use.an.instrument.to.
trees.are.made
make. words. appear. on. a. surface,.
word.–.n..one.or.more.connected. such.as.paper
sounds.that.form.a.single.part.of.a.
language
write
work.– v..to.use.physical.or.mental..
effort. to. make. or. do. something;.
n..the.effort.used.to.make.or.to.do.
something;.that.which.needs.effort;.
the.job.one.does.to.earn.money
world.–.n..the.earth;.the.people.who.
wrong.–.ad..not.correct;.bad;.not..
live.on.the.earth
legal;.opposite.right
worry.–.v..to.be.concerned;.to.contin-
ue.thinking.that.something,.possibly.
bad,.can.happen
worse.–.ad..more.bad.than
worth.–.n..value.measured.in.money
learningenglish.voanews.com 87

XYZ
x-ray.–.n..a.kind.of.radiation.that.can. zero.–.n..the.number.meaning.none.
pass. through. most. solid. material,.. or.nothing
often.used.in.medicine
zoo.–.n..a.place.where.animals.are.
kept.for.the.public.to.look.at.and.study
year.–.n..a.period.of.time.equal.to.
twelve.months
yellow.–.ad..having.the.color.like.that.
of.gold.or.the.sun
yes.–.ad..used.to.express.agreement.
or.to.permit
yesterday.–.n..the.day.before.today
yet.–.ad..at.some.time.before.now.
(“Have they arrived yet?”);.now;.at.
this.time.(“I cannot tell you about it
yet.”);.conj..however.(“The sun was
shining, yet it was cold.”)
you. –. pro.. the. person. or. persons..
being.spoken.to
young.–.ad..in.the.early.years.of.life;.
not.old
88

x-ray • zoo
learningenglish.voanews.com 89

Special Words & Information
90

Common Prefixes Common Expressions
anti. –. against,. opposed. to. (anti- a lot of.–.much.or.many.(“We had a
government) lot of rain.”)
dis.–.not.(dishonest, disobey) carry out.–.to.do;.to.put.into.effect..
(“Please carry out the plan.”)
mis. –. badly,. wrongly. (mistreat,
misunderstand) pass a bill.–.approve.(“Congress is
expected to pass a bill to cut taxes.”)
pro. –. for,. supporting. (pro-labor,
pro-government) take steps.–.to.start.to.do.something.
(“The government will take steps to
re.–.to.do.again.(reorganize, reunite)
halt inflation.”)
self.–.used.to.show.that.the.person.
or.group.acting.is.the.one.affected.by.
the.action,.or.to.show.that.the.action..
is. done. only. by. its. own. effort. or..
power.(self-declared, self- appointed)
un.–.not.(unusual, unhappy)
learningenglish.voanews.com 91

Numbers
|  0. zero  |     | 10. ten          |
| --------- | --- | ---------------- |
|  1  one   |     | 20. twenty       |
|  2. two   |     | 50. fifty        |
|  3. three |     | 100. one.hundred |
 4. four
|     |     | 1,000. one.thousand |
| --- | --- | ------------------- |
 5  five
|     |   1,000,000. | one.million |
| --- | ------------ | ----------- |
 6. six
|     |   1,000,000,000. | one.billion |
| --- | ---------------- | ----------- |
 7. seven
|     |  1,000,000,000,000. | one.trillion. |
| --- | ------------------- | ------------- |
 8. eight
 9. nine
| Days of the Week |     | Months of the Year |
| ---------------- | --- | ------------------ |
| Monday           |     | January            |
| Tuesday          |     | February           |
| Wednesday        |     | March              |
| Thursday         |     | April              |
| Friday           |     | May                |
| Saturday         |     | June               |
| Sunday           |     | July               |
August
September
October
November
December
92

| Chemical Elements |     | Some Organs of the Body |     |     |
| ----------------- | --- | ----------------------- | --- | --- |
(in order of atomic weight)
breast.–.produces.mothers’.milk.to.
| hydrogen | iron   | feed.a.baby |     |     |
| -------- | ------ | ----------- | --- | --- |
| helium   | nickel |             |     |     |
heart.–.pumps.blood.through.the.
| carbon | copper |     |     |     |
| ------ | ------ | --- | --- | --- |
body
| nitrogen | zinc   |             |                    |        |
| -------- | ------ | ----------- | ------------------ | ------ |
|          |        | intestines. | –. tubes. through. | which. |
| oxygen   | silver |             |                    |        |
food.passes.after.it.is.broken.down..
| sodium | tin |     |     |     |
| ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
in.the.stomach;.a.part.of.the.intes-
| magnesium | iodine |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- |
tines.also.removes.solid.wastes.from.
| aluminum | platinum |     |     |     |
| -------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- |
the.body
| silicon | gold |     |     |     |
| ------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
kidneys.–.clean.liquid.wastes.from.
| phosphorus | mercury   |                  |                   |        |
| ---------- | --------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | ------ |
| sulfur     | lead      | the.body         |                   |        |
| chlorine   | radon     | liver. –. makes. | some. proteins.   | and..  |
| potassium  | radium    |                  |                   |        |
|            |           | enzymes;.        | removes. poisons. | from.. |
| calcium    | uranium   | the.blood        |                   |        |
| titanium   | plutonium |                  |                   |        |
lungs.–.take.in.and.expel.air.from..
the.body
prostate.–.a.part.of.the.male.repro-
ductive.system
stomach.–.breaks.down.food.for.the.
body.to.use
uterus.–.a.part.of.the.female.repro-
ductive.system.where.a.fetus.develops
| learningenglish.voanews.com |     |     |     | 93  |
| --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Computer Terms
application.–.n..a.computer.program,. without.permission,.usually.to.steal.
usually. downloaded. to. a. wireless.. information.and/or.cause.damage
device.(often.shortened.to.app)
malware. –. n.. harmful. computer..
artificial.–.ad..human-made,.unreal. programs
but.very.similar
network.–.n..a.group.of.computers.
blog.–.n..short.term.for.Web.log,. or.other.devices,.such.as.telephones,.
a.personal.Web.site.where.people. connected. by. telecommunications.
write.about.whatever.they.want links
cyber. –. ad.. of. or. relating. to. the.. screen.–.n..a.flat,.usually.four-sided.
internet,.computers.and.information. space.on.which.to.show.images
technology
smart.–.ad..under.computer.control
database.–.n..information.gathered.
trend.–.v..to.be.shared.and.discussed.
and.stored.in.a.computer.in.a.system-
widely.on.social.media.within.a.short.
atic.way.so.computers.can.search.it
time.period
hack. –. v.. to. enter. a. computer. or.
virtual.–.ad..existing.on.computers.
network. through. non-traditional..
and/or.the.internet;.not.real.or.physical
methods,. often. secretly. and..
94

Business Terms
account.–.n..a.record.of.financial.deal- dividend.–.n..part.of.a.company’s.
ings..For.example,.a.bank.account.is.a. earnings.that.is.given.to.sharehold-
record.of.how.much.money.a.person. ers..Not.all.stocks.pay.dividends.
or.company.has.in.a.bank
index.–.n..a.way.of.measuring.the.
bond.–.n..an.agreement.to.pay.inter- value.of.a.group.of.securities..For..
est.on.a.loan,.generally.for.a.period.. example,.a.stock.index.measures.the.
of.years,.until.the.loan.is.repaid..A. value.of.a.group.of.stocks.
bond.can.be.bought.or.sold.
security.–.n..evidence.of.ownership.
capital.–.n..money.or.property.used. that.has.financial.value,.such.as.a.
to.create.more.wealth stock.or.bond..Security.can.also.mean.
a.financial.contract.that.has.value.
contract. –. n.. a. legal. agreement..
between. people. or. groups. to. do,.. stock.–.n..a.share.in.ownership.of.a.
provide.or.trade.something company..The.stock.of.public.compa-
nies.is.traded.on.stock.exchanges.
corporation.–.n..a.business.that.is.or-
ganized.as.a.legal.company.separate.
from.its.owners.and.workers
learningenglish.voanews.com 95

The U.S. Constitution
The.Constitution.of.the.United.States.describes.
the.structure.of.the.government..Governmental.
power.and.functions.in.the.United.States.rest.in.
three.branches.of.government:.the.legislative,.
judicial,.and.executive.
96
noitartsinimdA
sdroceR
dna
sevihcrA
lanoitaN
United States Branches of Government

Senate
House.of..
Representatives
The Legislative Branch
The.Legislative.Branch.makes.
laws.for.the.nation.
Departments
Executive..
President
Agencies
Vice.President Independent.
Agencies
The Executive Branch
The.Executive.Branch.enforces.
the.laws.of.the.land.
District..
Court
Supreme.. Court.of..
Court Appeals
Other.Federal.
Courts
The Judicial Branch
Courts.decide.arguments.about.
the.meaning.of.laws,.how.they.are.
applied,.and.whether.they.break.
the.rules.of.the.Constitution.
learningenglish.voanews.com 97

Map of the United States
98

learningenglish.voanews.com 99

Map of the World
100

learningenglish.voanews.com 101

Presidents of the United States
| George.Washington      | Unaffiliated              | 1789–97   |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- | --------- |
| John.Adams             | Federalist                | 1797–1801 |
| Thomas.Jefferson       | Democratic-Republican     | 1801–9    |
| James.Madison          | Democratic-Republican     | 1809–17   |
| James.Monroe           | Democratic-Republican     | 1817–25   |
| John.Quincy.Adams      | Democratic-Republican     | 1825–29   |
| Andrew.Jackson         | Democratic                | 1829–37   |
| Martin.Van.Buren       | Democratic                | 1837–41   |
| William.Henry.Harrison | Whig                      | 1841      |
| John.Tyler             | Whig                      | 1841–45   |
| James.K..Polk          | Democratic                | 1845–49   |
| Zachary.Taylor         | Whig                      | 1849–50   |
| Millard.Fillmore       | Whig                      | 1850–53   |
| Franklin.Pierce        | Democratic                | 1853–57   |
| James.Buchanan         | Democratic                | 1857–61   |
| Abraham.Lincoln        | Republican                | 1861–65   |
| Andrew.Johnson         | Democratic/National Union | 1865–69   |
| Ulysses.S..Grant       | Republican                | 1869–77   |
| Rutherford.B..Hayes    | Republican                | 1877–81   |
| James.Garfield         | Republican                | 1881      |
| Chester.A..Arthur      | Republican                | 1881–85   |
| Grover.Cleveland       | Democratic                | 1885–89   |
| Benjamin.Harrison      | Republican                | 1889–93   |
102

| Grover.Cleveland      | Democratic | 1893–97   |
| --------------------- | ---------- | --------- |
| William.McKinley      | Republican | 1897–1901 |
| Theodore.Roosevelt    | Republican | 1901–9    |
| William.Howard.Taft   | Republican | 1909–13   |
| Woodrow.Wilson        | Democratic | 1913–21   |
| Warren.G..Harding     | Republican | 1921–23   |
| Calvin.Coolidge       | Republican | 1923–29   |
| Herbert.Hoover        | Republican | 1929–33   |
| Franklin.D..Roosevelt | Democratic | 1933–45   |
| Harry.S..Truman       | Democratic | 1945–53   |
| Dwight.D..Eisenhower  | Republican | 1953–61   |
| John.F..Kennedy       | Democratic | 1961–63   |
| Lyndon.B..Johnson     | Democratic | 1963–69   |
| Richard.M..Nixon      | Republican | 1969–74   |
| Gerald.R..Ford        | Republican | 1974–77   |
| James.Carter          | Democratic | 1977–81   |
| Ronald.Reagan         | Republican | 1981–89   |
| George.H..W..Bush     | Republican | 1989–93   |
| William.J..Clinton    | Democratic | 1993–2001 |
| George.W..Bush        | Republican | 2001–2009 |
| Barack.Obama          | Democratic | 2009–2017 |
| Donald.J..Trump       | Republican | 2017      |
learningenglish.voanews.com 103

Notes
104

learningenglish.voanews.com 105

Notes
106

learningenglish.voanews.com 107

Notes
108

learningenglish.voanews.com 109

Notes
110

learningenglish.voanews.com 111

330.Independence.Avenue.SW
Washington,.DC.20237
LearningEnglish@voanews.com
learningenglish.voanews.com
voalearningenglish @VOALearnEnglish VOALearningEnglish